Hello my friends and welcome back to
another Boulders Gate 3 full party
building guide for honor mode. Hope
you're all doing well. Today we're
covering my pick for the best patch 8
party in Boulders Gate 3 using only the
new subasses. We're going to be building
four individually extremely strong
characters that when put together create
a whole that is even more than the sum
of its parts, yielding a synergistic and
devastatingly powerful honor mode team.
We'll be using only the new patch 8
subasses for these characters so you can
maximize experiencing the new content.
And just like all of my other honor mode
party build guides, this one will have
no overlapping items cuz these
characters are designed to work together
and require no specific story choices.
So you can use this no matter what your
plan is for your honor mode run. In this
particular guide, we will also be
getting access to pretty much every one
of the most powerful items and mechanics
in Boulders's Gate 3 alongside the
incredibly strong characters. So, if
you've been waiting to try to get your
honor mode win, this is going to be a
very easy and very smooth way to do it.
Before I begin, I do want to take a
quick moment to say thank you so much to
Fading Sunset for the $5 donation,
Joseph Fior for the $20, Tarantula for
the $5, and Steven V and Phil Zaster for
becoming channel members. Thank you so
much, my friends. I really appreciate
the support. It really means a lot. All
right, let's build a party. We're going
to start with our main damage dealer and
one of the most powerful characters in
the game overall, the Hexblade Warlock.
This is going to be the centerpiece of
our party with the awesome sustained
damage that it brings both in melee and
at ranged allowing you to win longer
fights and the incredible burst damage
letting you end fights before they
begin. We also get awesome control
spells, great defensive utilities, and
great personal defenses. So, this
character adds a layer of safety to the
party in addition to the incredible
amount of damage that it deals that
makes everything else just so much
smoother. So, this is going to be the
core that we're building our strategy
around. For this character, we are, of
course, going to be taking Eldrich Blast
and Booming Blade as our two cantrips so
that we do ranged damage and melee
damage at the highest possible level.
We're going to be picking up Hexblade
Warlock, which allows us to build
everything off of our charisma. For our
spell selection at first level, we're
taking shield, which gives us amazing
defensive utility, and hex, which again
adds to our sustained damage. So, right
from the beginning of the game, this
character does its job incredibly well.
One of the great things about this party
overall is all of the builds come online
extremely early, so you never have a
weak point for your party. And the
Hexblade Warlock is very archetypal of
that because of how early it gets its
major power spikes. For our ability
score selection, we're going to be
taking 16 in charisma, 12 in wisdom,
eight in intelligence, 14 constitution,
and 16 in dexterity. This character is
going to be in medium armor and then
later on possibly in a robe depending on
your story event. So you want high
dexterity both for the initiative and
also for the armor class. This character
will not be using uh Ethel's hair if you
get that. That is better on a different
character. So you don't need to take odd
starting points in charisma. Though it
is a great candidate for the mirror of
loss in act three. So, if you do end up
getting the full plus three benefit from
the mirror, you can respspec to take 17
charisma um at that point and then
you'll just drop your wisdom down to 10
if you plan to do the full plus three
bonus from that for this character. One
of the really cool things about this
party also is that we end up with four
charisma characters. So, any one of them
can be your party face depending on what
races they're playing, what backgrounds
they have. Uh, basically just whichever
one has the highest persuasion check is
going to make you the best party face.
So, you can pick your skills based on
which one you want to handle the
dialogue, whether that's your main
character or you have a particular
reason to want one of these characters
to be the party face. There is one that
gets a bonus to skills. The bard will be
slightly better at it, but for the most
part, you can have any of these
characters handle dialogue and you will
be in great shape in terms of dialogue.
So any one of these characters can be
your main character if you prefer to do
conversations with your main character.
Also for this character, what companion
or race you pick doesn't matter from a
mechanical standpoint. Uh the party will
have significant darkness synergy. So
any of the characters can benefit from
having extra casts of darkness by
playing a D half D or Asodius Teling.
And of course the normally incredibly
strong picks like Gankee for the misty
step and the additional skill access.
Halfling for the ability to reroll ones
for wood elf for halfwood elf for the
bonus movement speed or of course dwar
for the broken out of combat
invisibility are all excellent options.
Um but you're very open as to what race
you pick for this character. At
character level two we are going to take
another spell here. What spell we pick
doesn't really matter. We're going to
swap it at level three anyways. But you
can grab armor of agatus for a little
early game safety. And then we're taking
of course agonizing blast and devil's
sight. This party gets tremendous
darkness synergy, which is one of the
most powerful mechanics in Boulders's
Gate 3. So, of course, we want our
warlock to be able to naturally see
through darkness. And agonizing blast
gives us great ranged damage. Character
level three, we're going to get third or
second level spells. And of course, we
are going to take datlade. As a hexblade
warlock, we can have this as our hexed
weapon. We can use the resonant stone
for broken amounts of damage output. And
so this character is now going to be
dealing incredible melee damage as well
as awesome ranged damage with our
agonizing blasts. For our packed boon,
we're going to be taking the pack of the
blade so that we get extra attack with
our hexed weapon at level five. And
we're going to replace uh whatever spell
we took at level two with another second
level spell. In this case, I'm going to
recommend, of course, taking darkness.
Now, this is not going to be the primary
darkness caster for the party because
our shadow sorcerer is usually going to
be the one casting darkness because they
can't see through it unless they use
their special ability to cast it. But
having extra casts of darkness with a
darkness synergy, a darkness focused
party is always going to be great. So,
this character should have access to it
as well. At level four, we're going to
be taking our first feat. And the feat
that we're going to be taking, as with
many honor mode characters, is of course
alert. Alert is incredible for honor
mode. Um, it means that we don't have to
invest any initiative gear on this
character because we're going to want it
for a different character. The going
before enemies means that they often
don't get turns. So, of course, most
honor mode runs are going to want this
on as many characters as possible. For
our cantrip selection here, we're going
to take bone chill. This gives us a
great offensive option for shutting down
enemy healing, giving undead
disadvantage, which when we're coming up
to act two is very useful. And for our
spell selection, we're going to go ahead
and take uh Misty Step. This gives us a
great panic button to get out of trouble
if we happen to find ourselves in
danger. At level five, we get third
level spells. And of course, the third
level spells that we're going to take
are going to be counter spell. Yet
another great uh defensive option that
this character brings to the party.
Having two copies of counter spell,
which we will in this party, makes you
extremely safe against even some of the
most dangerous uh enemy effects in the
game. Now, if an enemy casts a sixth
level spell, you're going to need to use
a sixth level counter spell from your
sorcerer. But up to level five, you will
always uh level five spells, you'll
always succeed at counter spelling them
with a warlock cuz they get the
automatic spell slot upgrades. For our
Eldrich Invocation, of course, we're
going to be taking repelling blasts so
we can push enemies back into hazardous
effects that we set up. And speaking of
hazardous effects, we no longer need to
concentrate on hex on this character
because we have a much better
concentration option in the form of
hunger of Hadar. Yet another
game-winning spell that this uh
character brings to the party. And of
course, if you can keep enemies trapped
in it, which this party is very good at
doing, then they won't be able to do
anything and will be taking constant
damage.
character level six. Uh we don't have a
lot of decisions to make, but we do get
our uh specters, which are really nice
for just clogging up the battlefield.
We're going to go back and grab a
control spell. Later on, of course, this
character can use the band of the mystic
scoundrel incredibly efficiently. So,
we're going to take illusion and
enchantment control spells in order to
have the most powerful versions of those
effects available. Level seven, we're
going to take a uh level four spells.
Now, this uh character doesn't have a
ton of level four spells specifically
that we really want. Fantasmal killer is
kind of fun on a hexlade warlock, but
you're more likely to just go back and
make sure you have all the best band of
the mystic scoundrel options, um like
hypnotic pattern for a big AoE control
spell. And then we're going to take
dreadful word because again, this is an
enchantment control spell in the form of
confusion. So, it gives us yet another
amazing control option with this
character. This character brings both
extremely powerful lockdown and
extremely powerful
control. Level eight, we're taking our
feet and of course that's going to be an
increase to our charisma. And our spell
selection is going to be again rounding
out our spells. We'll take fantasmal
killer here. With the resonant stone,
enemies will have vulnerability to this.
And with the free upgrade to warlock
spell slots, fantasmal killer is
actually a really nice one for hex
blades. Warlock level 9, we get fifth
level spells. And this is where things
get a little more exciting in terms of
our spell selection. Cone of Cold will
let us blow up groups of enemies, which
is pretty nice. This character has up to
this point done everything except for
AoE damage. So having that available is
awesome as well. Our uh Eldrich
Invocation here mostly doesn't matter.
We're going to have Conjur Elemental
from a different character instead. So
you don't really need to take uh minions
of chaos. Um, so you can go back and
pick up whatever you think might be fun
for this character. Maybe you just want
to do utility spells like mass of many
faces or something like that. Xlade
level 10. We get our cantrip selection
here. And this character can benefit
from emergency blade wards sometime,
especially in the late game when your
armor class is low. So I recommend
picking that up. And then for our spell
selection, you can grab banishing smite
for even more burst damage. In melee,
this adds 5d10 force damage, which of
course is awesome for this character.
Level 11, you get your third warlock
spell slot as well as your sixth level
spell. So, we can pick up uh create
undead here, which gives us yet another
awesome dayong summon that we can use in
order to power up the party
significantly. This party ends up with a
pretty major summoning sub theme because
we get some of the most powerful summons
in the game and you can have several of
them running around. And then for our
spell selection, we're going to go ahead
and grab hold monster. Again, we want
these uh enchantment based control
spells in order to use the band of the
mystic scoundrel most effectively.
Finally, at character level 12, you can
pick up whatever spell here. Banishment
is really nice in some late game boss
fights, so you can grab that. But at
this point, you mostly have the spells
that you need the most. So, you can pick
up whatever you think is going to be the
most fun to play with. And of course,
for our invocation, we get lifrinker,
allowing us to do even more melee damage
based on our charisma. Speaking of
charisma, for our feet, we're going to
take uh an ability improvement to boost
our charisma to maximum. If you're using
the mirror, you can also take savage
attacker at this point. This character
rolls a lot of dice, so savage attacker
is a lot of extra damage. However, the
maxing out your charisma is more
important uh than getting savage
attacker. You already do so much damage,
you don't really need more average
damage. savage attacker is kind of
overkill, but it is great to have if you
have that option. Four items for this
character. We're going to start with the
broken stuff because one of the great
things about this party is that it gets
access to all the broken mechanics in
Boulders's Gate 3. So, firstly, of
course, we've got our shadow blade. This
is going to be our main weapon
throughout the entire game. Um, remember
to cast this at the beginning of every
adventuring day. You're always going to
want to spend one spell slot on that.
and then remember to bind it as your hex
weapon so that it uses your charisma for
attack and damage. In addition to the
shadow blade, you can either use a
shield in the early game for more
defenses or a more offensive weapon with
a passive like the knife of the under
mountain king. Knife of the under
mountain king because these are both
shortsords, you can dual wield them, of
course. Um, and this will increase your
critical chance, which is very
important. This is very nice for this
character cuz you roll so many dice and
that can increase your damage output.
Now, remember if you're dual wielding
with this character to turn off the dual
wielding button here to make sure that
the game doesn't use your offhand attack
unless you want it to. Since this won't
be bound as a hexed weapon, it's going
to use your dexterity to roll its
attacks. So, it will typically have
lower hit chance and do lower damage
obviously than your shadow blade. You
also have really important uses for your
bonus actions in the late game. For an
offensive choice, you can swap this to
rapsity. Obviously, this is the best
passive weapon in the game. And because
it is a dagger, you can wield it again
with alongside the shadow blade for
additional damage, spell safe DC, and
bonus to attack rolls. These work as
well on your ranged attacks. So, this
increases the damage and attack rolls of
your Eldrich blasts. Makes you way
better at casting control spells even
before you've built up arcane acuity
stacks and uh everything. In addition to
that, of course, we're using the shadow
blade, which does psychic damage. So to
combine this, we're going to use the
resonant stone, which gives everything
nearby the steeped in bliss condition,
doubling the damage that they take from
our character's attacks. So we're going
to be doing an average of hundreds of
damage on every single attack when we
are uh using the resonant stone and the
shadow blade, especially because we can
add even more damage if we want to with
a banishing smite. for example, we can
get guaranteed critical hits using the
luck of the far realm's elithid power if
you go that route on this character in
order to multiply your damage
tremendously. Now, of course, because
this is an aura steeped in bliss, you
could have a different character carry
the resonant stone, and there are some
advantages to doing that. One of the
downsides of this character is
relatively low saving throws and the
steeped in bliss condition does reduce
your uh gives you disadvantage on mental
saving throws which can be dangerous
though we're going to offset that with
our second character but it does mean
that you have to be much more careful
with your positioning of this character
and your allies. So generally I like to
just have this character carry the
resonant stone because it's going to
make it easy to apply the psychic
damage. So that's your weapon setup.
Early game, shadow blade and the
adamantine shield or the or any shield
and the knife of the under mountain
king. Late game, shadow blade and raps
city. For our ranged weapon, you can use
the deadshot. No other character in the
party needs it, and that increases your
critical damage even further. The broken
stuff doesn't stop there, though,
because we also get to use the gloves of
battle mages power. Since shadow blade
is a spell, every single attack counts
as a spell that uses a weapon. So,
whenever we attack an enemy, we're going
to get stacks of arcane acuity, which
will increase the hit chance with our
spells and the DC of our uh control
spells, cuz of course, this character
can output incredible crowd control with
all the control spells that we've taken.
Combine this with the band of the mystic
scoundrel, and you can use these as a
bonus action with enchantment or
illusion spells like confusion, hypnotic
pattern, or the various hold persons and
hold monsters, which then get you
guaranteed critical hits with subsequent
attacks. So, the amount of damage and
control the character can output is
absurd. For our second ring, we're going
to go with the ring of arcane synergy.
Um, whenever you deal damage with a
cantrip, you gain arcane synergy, adding
your charisma modifier to your weapon
damage again. And remember, we're
already doing that twice cuz we have
lifrinker and we're a hex blade. So,
this is a third use of our charisma uh
for our weapon damage. And we're doing
damage with a cantrip every turn because
we're casting booming blade on every
attack. So, this character just adds
massive amounts of damage with this
combination of items. For our armor, in
the early game, you're just going to
want to use a solid defensive medium
armor like the adamantian scale mail.
And then in the late game, you're going
to swap to the potent robe. You can use
this alongside the um the Eldrich
Invocation that gives you mage armor as
well if you are going the potent robe
which will allow your cantrips including
booming blade to deal your charisma
modifier to damage yet another time as
well as giving you the additional temp
HP and everything as well. So potent
robe incredibly powerful for every hex
blade. If you aren't taking the story
event that or taking the story path that
gets you the potent robe cuz only some
playthroughs get this item, then just a
a great endgame medium armor is the
flame enameled armor, giving you even
more initiative and better saving throws
as well as resistance to cold and fire
damage for relevant late game defenses.
So, uh, no other characters need these
items and they will power up this
character enormously. This is going to
be the centerpiece of your party that
does all of your damage output and a big
chunk of your crowd control, making sure
that enemies die or are locked down
before the fight ever starts. Now, as
insanely powerful as our first character
is, it does come with one major
downside, which is that the resonance
stone makes saving throws pretty
dangerous for the party. So, with our
second character, we're going to
completely remove that downside, as well
as providing an incredible character in
its own right. This will be our
secondary damage dealer, able to deal
amazing burst damage when you want to
bring down one highalth enemy, as well
as our main tank, being almost
impossible for enemies to kill,
passively debuffing enemies that are
near them, providing great crowd control
and solid consistent damage, as well as
excellent burst damage, and also a ton
of utility, healing, and bonuses for
your party using the Oath of the Crown
Paladin. Both of the crown paladins can
also act as a secondary healer through
their subclass ability and lay on hands
and give us righteous clarity which
smooths out our early game making our
attacks more likely to land and is still
extremely powerful in the late game
especially since we're using a shadow
blade with our hex blade. So the
additional uh attack roll on that which
doesn't come with an enhancement bonus
unlike normal weapons. So we'll
typically have a lower chance to hit
allows your hex blade to hit every
attack almost guaranteed for this
character. Of course, we're starting
with Oath of the Crown Paladin. And for
our ability score selection, we're going
to take something that looks a little
bit unusual here because at level two,
we're going to take Hex Blade in order
to allow our charisma to be our attack
stat. The reason for this, of course, is
we want to max our charisma so that our
ability to provide saving throws to our
allies is as high as possible, as well
as giving us the maximum value on the
save DC of our spells, which will be
relevant as a crown paladin as well. So,
we're going to take a very uh familiar
looking attribute split with 16
charisma, 16 in dexterity, 14 in
constitution, and 12 in wisdom. If you
are using uh Ethel's hair in this
playthrough, then this is the character
that's going to get it. So, if you plan
to to have Ethe's hair, then you're
going to want to take 10 wisdom and 17
charisma so that you can hit 18 by just
applying Ethe's hair to this character.
um for your skill selection here. Again,
this just like all of our charisma based
characters could be our party face. So,
you can happily take persuasion or
intimidation here. Um or other paladin
class skills from background. You may
also want to grab athletics just to make
yourself slightly harder to push in the
late game since you have low strength by
default. This character can sometimes be
shoved around by enemies. Um, so the
higher athletics check can prevent that,
especially if you're not using the
skills on your party face, but mostly
it's basically take dialogue skills if
you plan to use those, grab athletics if
you don't. At character level two, we're
going to immediately take a level of
hexlade warlock so that we can attack
using our charisma. Don't worry, not
every build is going to be a hex blade
build in this party, but for this
character, it's such a massive boost to
your power level cuz it lets you tie
everything to a single attribute. So,
your paladin aura will be even more
effective. For our cantrip selection, as
a hex blade, we're going to take Eldrich
Blast and Booming Blade, which again
increases our damage output enormously
and gives us a solid ranged option. You
can also uh take blade ward to give
yourself a great defensive tool um on
this character as well, or if it's your
party face, you can pick up friends if
you want to use that. The Eldrich Blast
is useful for if you don't have any
other good ranged options, um, but not
totally necessary for this character.
Still a very powerful cantrip to have
access to. For our spell selection as a
hex blade, we're going to go ahead and
take shield and hex as well. Again, just
increasing our damage output and making
ourselves even tankier. Combined with
heavy armor and shield proficiency, the
shield spell is going to make this
character incredibly difficult to kill
um or to hit with attacks. And we get
one spell slot per short rest with our
one level of warlock that we can spend
on the shield spell in order to give
ourselves a nice defensive bonus in case
we need it. Level three, we're going
right back into paladin in order to get
paladin smites and some more level one
spell slots. Um, for your fighting style
here, we're going to take defense
fighting style. This character can
benefit from having a very high armor
class. We want to get up in enemies
faces, especially because late game we
are going to be using spirit guardians
to run at enemies since crown paladins
get access to that. So we don't want to
lose concentration on spirit guardians.
Having the defense fighting style helps
us do that. Your most useful spells on
this character are going to be of course
command. Since we're going to be maxing
charisma, we will be able to use command
just as well as a full spellcaster. So
this gives us a tool for locking down
enemies very easily in addition to the
damage tanking and utility that this
character provides. We get bless which
is a great concentration spell for the
early game. Um if you want to buff up
your charact your whole party then bless
is very valuable and we don't otherwise
get access to bless in this party. So
this character can be our bless caster
other than with the buff on heal items
which we will talk about in a second
here. Thunderous Smite can be used in
the same turn as a paladin smite.
Although be aware that it does eat your
bonus action as well. Um but it doesn't
require your concentration can be used
in the same turn as a paladin smite to
spend two level one spell slots to
increase your burst damage even further.
And then you can take uh more utility
spells, things like protection from evil
and good. Shield of faith you can
concentrate on all day for even higher
armor class if you want as well. Um,
that's not always the best use of a
spell slot, but useful, especially in
the early game. So, there's a lot of
utility spells, but mostly this gives
you access to two more super powerful
spells in the form of command and
bless. Paladin level three, of course,
with oath of the crown. We now get
command uh by default, so you can
prepare something else. And we get the
turn the tide and champion challenge
actions, letting us control enemies even
further. Um, so go ahead and just grab
any other situationally powerful spell
here. And then at level four, we're
going to take a feat. And the feat we're
going to take is an ability improvement
to maximize our charisma. This character
is going to use our initiative gear. So
you will still have high initiative on
this character. Enough to win uh against
almost every enemy in the game without
taking alert. Since we took the the
warlock level, we can't afford to take
alert. If you have Ethel's hair, then
you can pick up a feat like alert. But
um if you're taking Ethel's hair on this
character in order to get 18 charisma
naturally and 20 with only a single ASI,
the second feat that you should take is
actually sentinel. This character can
lock enemies in place very easily and
then they're trapped inside the spirit
guardians receiving radiating orbs,
taking a bunch of damage. You can trap
them inside darkness effects from your
shadow sorcerer as well or hunger of
fedar and so on with the sentinel
attacks. So this will give you even more
lock down with eel's hair. Savage
attacker for even more damage is also a
possibility. Though again, this party
does so much damage that you mostly
don't actually need to boost your damage
any further.
Level five, we get warding bond, which
if you're not using a camp cer, which
this party does not need to, warding
bond and aid are both useful spells that
this character can spend spell slots on.
Remember, you can refresh your spell
slots using elixir or items that refresh
spell slots in order to have aid up on
your party if you want to, though
another party member will provide um a
ton of temporary hit points as well. Uh
and warding bond can help you keep one
of your squishier allies alive by
redirecting some damage to this
character. Of course, we also get extra
attack for even more
damage. No decisions to make at uh
Paladin level six, but now we get aura
of protection, giving us, and they've
finally fixed this tool tip, by the way,
which I love, though I wish it said
plus4 equal to your charisma bonus. Uh
used to be this tool tip always showed
plus zero, but it has now been finally
fixed after 2 years. Um, so we get a
plus4 bonus to the saving throws of all
of our party members as long as they
stay around this paladin. This party
wants to fight outside of fight uh from
darkness clouds anyways. So, you're
going to be playing fairly close
together. That means you'll be
benefiting from the aura of protection
fulltime and your party will be
significantly safer as a result. So, you
get to build a fortress out of darkness
alongside the spirit guardians and
damage effects that this character
provides.
Um, we also get Divine Allegiance. Now,
Divine Allegiance is a little bit risky
to use, but it can help uh heal an ally
who might be taking lethal damage. So,
since you're going to be playing close
together anyways, this does give you a
reaction that could potentially safe
save an ally. Since this character is
going to be using the radiating orb
gear, it's it will debuff the paladin.
So, just be aware of that. But, it is
nevertheless a use useful ability to
have.
At level eight, we get another feat and
we're just going to take another boost
to our charisma to max out our weapon
damage, spell save DCs, and the buff
from our aura. Um, again, if you have
Ethe's hair, put it on this character
and take Sentinel as your second feat in
order to lock down
enemies. Level nine on Paladin, we get
Spirit Guardians, which allows you to
have an amazing concentration spell. And
this character can now do tons of
radiant damage with the spirit guardians
combined with their smite attacks in
order to lock down enemies with
radiating orb extremely effectively.
Works incredibly if you do have
sentinel, but also just gives this
character a great debuffing tool in
addition to all of the tanking and
damage dealing that it was already
capable
of. Then at paladin level 10, you also
get aura of courage. This is an awesome
ability. This party doesn't naturally
get access to heroes feast. It's one of
the few tools that we are missing. You
can either of course use a camp cer to
just cast heroes fee on your party. But
if you don't like using campcasters,
aura of courage will give you the most
important aspect of heroes feast. Making
your whole party immune to frightened,
which is very useful in the late game.
There are some extremely powerful
enemies with fear effects. Being immune
to them just makes your party
significantly stronger and removes yet
another way that you could potentially
lose the game. So between the saving
throw boost and the fear immunity, you
really don't have to worry about the
disadvantage on mental saves from the
resonant stone. This character offsets
those completely. Finally, at character
level 11, you get the improved divine
smite, making you even more of a threat
in melee and also combined with the
radiating orb gear, giving you debuffs
with radiating orb effects on every
single attack, as well as from spirit
guardians, not only when you smite, but
also just on normal attacks as well. or
items for this character. Our items
actually come in two different stages
depending on whether we have leveled up
enough to get spirit guardians or not on
this character. So, in the early acts,
we're going to be using the buff on heal
item set, the hell rider's pride and the
whispering promise, which can apply
bless and blade ward to our allies
whenever we heal them. This character
actually does a significant amount of
healing between the ability to prepare
cure wounds if you really need it in an
emergency, Paladin's natural lay on
hands, and the AoE healing from Turn the
Tide that Crown Paladin gets as well as
the ability to just throw or drink
healing potions. This character does a
surprising amount of healing and is
quite good at applying these buffs. So,
in the early game, we're actually going
to be a better healer for carrying these
items than our more dedicated lateg game
healer. Uh, and then we'll swap roles
with that character once we get spirit
guardians and pick up the radiating orb
gear instead. The radiating orb gear
being the coruscation ring, the callus
glow ring, and the luminous armor will
allow us to apply radiating orbs to
enemies with our spirit guardians. And
uh, the cor the callus glow ring does
radiant damage with every damage source
that we do. and the shock waves and uh
radiating orbs from these items will
debuff enemies significantly. This is a
darkness focused party, so enemies will
usually be making their attacks with
disadvantage. Combine that with the
attack penalty that they'll be taking
from radiating orbs, and enemies will
just never hit our allies. So, the
debuffs that we apply passively by
running next to them um with spirit
guardians and also hitting them with our
radiant damage that we naturally have
and our smite attacks which add more
radiant damage will cause enemies to
never hit their attacks. We can stack
that in addition with the gloves of
belligerent skies and the boots of
stormy clamor to add reverberation to
this radiating orb effect to do even
more damage and knock enemies prone uh
disrupting their concentration causing
them to waste turns. So enemies will be
significantly debuffed just by being
near this character. And what's even
better, because we're a paladin, we have
super high armor class. We have the
shield spell from our level of hexblade
warlock. We have uh shield proficiency
and everything and we have incredible
saving throws because we're getting a
plus five to all of our saving throws
from our charisma. We will never lose
concentration on spirit guardians. So,
we will always be able to apply these
debuffs. So, early game buff on heal
items, late game radiating orb item. In
addition to these broken item effects,
um this is of course a darkness party
and this character makes attacks and
wants to stand in the darkness near our
allies. So, we're going to need some way
to become immune to our allies darkness
since we don't naturally get that.
There's two main ways that this
character can do that, and it'll depend
on what story event you are planning to
do with your party. Char's spear of
evening makes you immune to blind, and
so you can operate normally in darkness
and is the most powerful way to do this.
It's also the best weapon for this
character. So, if you're taking the
story path that gets you Char's spear of
evening, it's going to be the best in
slot weapon for attacking with casting
darkness additionally and seeing in
darkness as well. If you don't have it,
then you're going to want to use the
Eversight ring, um, which will give you
blindness immunity. If you're using the
Eversight ring, then pass the
coruscation ring back over to your bard
instead of taking it on this character.
So, either way, you're going to get
blindness immunity, but it's going to be
a little conditional on which story
event you took. We're going to use the
luminous armor for most of the game, but
um before we get the ability to apply a
lot of radiant damage, there are times
when you may want to use just a normal
heavy armor like the adamantine splint,
just a great defensive tool. So, this
character has access to that as well. In
addition to these specific items, uh
there's a couple other very important
tools that this character needs. you
have no natural way to get Misti step.
So you can use the disintegrating night
walkers or once you are putting on the
boots of stormy clamor the amulet of
misty step in order to get that on this
character and give yourself a get out of
jail free card. Um and we also need to
increase our initiative significantly.
So there are two initiative items that
this character has the highest priority
for. These being the Sentinel Shield,
giving us plus three to initiative, and
the Hell Rider Longbow, which occupies
just our bow slot, so it's totally
passive and also gives us plus three to
our initiative for a total of plus 9
with our three dexterity. That's enough
for an honor mode character. So, we're
going to be very well off in terms of
initiative just with these items. So, in
the early game, we're buffing our our
allies as well as doing all the awesome
damage and tanking and control that this
character is already capable of. And
then in the late game, we turn into an
absolute control monster, locking
enemies down just by being near them,
debuffing them consistently with our
radiating orb effects. Um, and then our
ally will take over the healing aspects
of the character so that your party
doesn't lose access to the that
extremely powerful ability. Also, I said
Char's Spear of Evening is the best
weapon for this character. If you aren't
using Char's spear, then pretty much any
powerful one-handed weapon will do. You
can use something like the blood of
lethander or the devotees mace which
does radiant damage. So will increase
your debuffing even further. Um either
of those make great one-handed weapon
options. But at that point you can kind
of experiment with what one-handed
weapon you think is going to be most
useful for the character. Char spear
stands out as being particularly good,
but this character's damage doesn't
actually come from its weapons. It comes
from its smite attack, from hex's from
spirit guardians and so on. So, uh, you
can use a more utility focused
one-handed weapon like one of these
maces. That also gives you some nice
buffs. This character also gets to stack
yet another broken item effect because
our warlock is using the gloves of
battle mage's power to stack Arcane
Acuity. We're making a lot of weapon
attacks, so we can still use the helmet
of Arcane Acuity. It didn't go away when
patch 8 hit, even though the gloves have
sort of overtaken its place at the top
of the totem pole. Um, in order to stack
irresistible commands, since we'll often
be hasted thanks to another party
member, we can make two weapon attacks,
get to get four arcaneity stacks, and
then use our haste action to cast
command. It'll be basically
irresistible. Remember, our save DCs are
really high on this character because
we're maximizing our charisma. You can
also just go with a more defensive
helmet like the helm of Baldderin. That
will give you even more safety for this
party and make them significantly harder
to kill as well. immunity to stun, uh,
additional armor class and saving
throws, and immunity to critical hits
will take this already incredibly
powerful defensive character and make it
almost impossible for enemies to kill
it. So, either of these make great
options depending on whether you really
want to stack every broken effect in the
game or want to have a little bit more
safety with the immunities. Overall, the
itemization for this character is
stacking buffs for your allies and
defensive stats on this character and
debuffs for your enemies. So, you just
want as many of those. And then, of
course, you need to grab Misty Step and
some initiative bonuses in order to
patch the weaknesses of this character.
Luckily, our other party members don't
need those items, so this character can
grab them. I just had to briefly pause
recording because my cat was demanding
to come into my office and sit on my
lap, which is unlucky for him because
our next character is a shadow sorcerer,
and I don't think he and Nimbus would
get along very well. Shadow sorcerer is
incredible for this party for many
reasons. Um firstly, of course, this is
a darkness party and this is a darkness
focused character. But secondly, our
first two party members provide our main
damage dealer and our off damage dealer,
our secondary damage dealer, and our
main tank and our secondary tank,
respectively. Between that tag team duo,
they do almost everything that a party
needs. But there's a couple things that
a shadow sorcerer provides that they
don't get access to. Firstly, we can
empower those characters dramatically
through buffing spells. Secondly, we get
a great way to cast darkness so that
those characters don't have to so that
the the hexblade doesn't have to spend
valuable spell slots and actions doing
so. And uh thirdly, the shadow sorcerer
provides area of effect damage and
upfront burst damage in even greater
amounts. So, we can end encounters even
faster by blowing up lots of chaff
enemies if we're facing um encounters
with lots of small enemies. So, sorcerer
gives us a buff to our whole party,
increased effectiveness. Sorcerers are
just sort of extremely powerful in
general, and also gives us a great way
to clear lots of weak enemies, which can
be a problem, especially in the early
game for the rest of the party. This
shadow sorcerer is going to at first
level take as your
cantrips, firebolt, and ray of frost
because, of course, we want multiple
damage types. And these two dam uh for
procking omens from Nimbus and these two
are the best uh early game combat
spells. It also gives you the utility to
freeze water and light fires, which most
parties should really strive to have
access to. So very important to have
these two cantrips in order to do that.
In addition to that, we're going to grab
mage hand, an excellent utility cantrip
that can create those pools of water by
throwing water bottles or throw potions
at our allies. So a great option for
every party to have. Um, and then
finally, we're going to pick up minor
illusion so that we can group enemies
before combat. We could have our other
uh our last party member, our bard, be
the minor illusion caster, but it's
pretty nice for the shadow sorcerer to
be able to do it cuz then you can group
allies uh group enemies or pull enemies
off using this character before blowing
them up with an area of effect spell
without having to switch control between
characters. So, it makes it a little
easier to manage in real time. For our
spell selection, we're going to be
taking chromatic orb and magic missile
as our early game combat spells.
Chromatic Orb gives us all of the
possible damage types that we want in
order to trigger omens from Nimbus and
also is just the best overall early game
combat spell. And magic missile gives us
a guaranteed source of damage. Very
important for every party to have access
to magic missile somewhere in it.
There's some encounters that magic
missile is invaluable for. So, this
party member manages to bring that um at
very little cost because, of course, it
is a sorcerer. For our ability score
selection, this is going to look pretty
familiar, although very slightly
different. We're going to be taking 16
in charisma, 12 in wisdom, eight in
intelligence. But for this character,
we're going to take 16 constitution, and
14 dexterity. A lot of what this
character is going to be doing is
concentrating on either darkness or
haste. So, you don't want to lose
concentration on those effects. And
while this does cost us initiative and
armor class, sorcerers have very low
base hit points. And um while they get
constitution save proficiency,
increasing our constitution means that
we are much less likely to drop
concentration on those important spells.
So it's very useful for this character.
You can still just take 16 dexterity. Um
but for this character, because of our
very low base hit points, I prefer 16
constitution in order to keep yourself
healthy. Again, uh this character can be
your party face depending on which is
your main character. So, um choose your
skills accordingly. Um of course, you
can pick up things like insight and
persuasion as a sorcerer. So, this makes
a very solid party face as well and is a
natural choice. That'll depend on which
character you prefer from a role-
playinging sense to have handling your
conversations. One of the advantage of
the all charisma party. At Shadow
Sorcerer level two, we get to start
using metamagic. And of course, we're
going to take twin spell, which will
allow us to twin haste on our two melee
characters. Very, very useful, of
course. And distant spell, so this
character can play even further and from
additional safety. For our spell
selection at this level, we're going to
go ahead and grab shield so that we can
defend ourselves more easily. Um, of
course, shield is the best defensive
reaction in the game, so having it is
very important for every character that
can have access to it.
Level three, we get second level spells.
And we're going to go ahead and grab
cloud of daggers. By the way, you can
just ignore um the spells that are
highlighted in yellow. That's just cuz
Gail has learned some spells from
scrolls in this playthrough cuz he's a
wizard in this save file. And we're
going to pick up quicken spell, of
course, because every sorcerer wants to
be able to cast multiple spells per
turn. We also get darkness and eyes of
the dark darkness, allowing us to cast
darkness both with a spell slot or with
sorcery points. you're going to want to
use sorcery points so that this
character can also see through the
darkness. Uh at level four, we're going
to grab another cantrip. This character
is going to want to pick up utility
cantrips. So, we're going to pick up
light here so that we have access to
light. While this party is going to play
in darkness a lot, having light is still
very useful for every party. So, this is
going to be the character that's going
to spend a canrip selection on picking
up light. And then for our spell
selection here, we're going to go back
to level one and pick up mage armor.
We've been fine without it up to this
point, but this character is going to be
unarmored for most of the game. And you
may want to pick up mage armor for your
hex blade later on if they swapped using
the potent robe. So, we're going back to
level one and grabbing it. Notice that
we're not taking some of the normal
spells that you might consider taking.
Spells like scorching ray or hold uh
person aren't necessary for this
sorcerer to have because those are
available on our other party members and
we don't really need the burst damage.
Instead, this character is going to
focus on AoE damage and team support.
So, we're taking more supporting spells
than a normal sorcerer would take. At uh
level three though, we're still going to
pick up alert because we want to make
sure that our entire party is going
before the enemies. So, alert is key for
that. And then at level five, we're
going to get third level spells, which
will give us access to counter spell. So
this character
can now uh provide our second copy of
counter spell. This gives us a
tremendous amount of team utility. We
can also now replace one of our lower
level spells. We are much less likely to
be concentrating on cloud of daggers at
this point. Uh because we have um we now
have access to haste. So, if we're
spending our concentration on something
that isn't darkness, it's almost always
going to be twinning haste on our two
main um damage dealers, the two melee
characters. At character level six, we
can now summon Nimbus and to refresh our
sorcery points in combat. We're very
good at dealing lots of different
elemental damage types in this party. We
have cold and fire just from our
cantrips. our allies have thunder damage
already. So, you just need acid, which
you can get from the costic band, which
any party member can wear up until they
have more important rings. Um, and
poison damage, which is a little harder
to do, but of course, there are plenty
of ways to get that in order to apply
those omens. You can also just give up
on the poison damage omen if you prefer
to do it that way. But, um, mostly this
gives your party yet another powerful
tool in the form of Nimbus, who is a
great summon. Uh, this party has a
significant amount of summon utility as
well, which will often cause enemies to
attack the summons instead of your
allies since your allies are so highly
defensive and will often be placed
inside of darkness clouds. Burst spell
selection at this level, we're going to
go ahead and grab lightning bolt. This
is a non-conentration damage spell. If
an enemy is wet, either from create
water from an ally or from throwing a
bottle of water at them with the mage
hand, then it'll blow up whole
encounters. So, an extremely useful
spell to
have. Character level seven. Um, we get
additional spells and we're going to
take wall of fire. I'm a strong believer
that every party should have wall of
fire somewhere in the uh available to
the party because there's so many
encounters that it just wins outright.
It is another concentration spell, but
it's again an AoE damage spell, so it
furthers the goals of this character.
Level eight, we're going to go ahead and
take ice storm as well as a
non-conentration damage spell. Again,
AoE damage is the most important thing
for this character. And then for our
feet, we're just going to take an
ability improvement. Our charisma
actually doesn't ma matter that much to
this sorcerer because we have very few
effects with spell save DCs that matter.
All of our um save DCs are just on
damage spells. And usually you want to
use damage spells in such a way that
enemies will still die even if they pass
the saving throw and take half damage
from them. So obviously we're still
going to increase our charisma, but it's
not as important and we can get away
with taking alert uh first even more
easily than most characters can. At
character level 9, we get fifth level
spells which allows us to further our
AOE damage plan by selecting cone of
cold. Um, with double cone of cold
available to the party, you can have an
enemy or group of enemies get wet either
from crate water or by throwing a bottle
of water at them and then double cone of
cold them to blow up entire encounters
instantly with this character. An
extremely powerful strategy. Um, as well
as the hex blade who has the second copy
of cone of cold. Character level 10, we
get an additional cantrip. Now here you
can pick up kind of whatever you want
for fun. Um, acid splash can sometimes
help you trigger omens or you can take
bursting senue to blow up corpses just
cuz it's funny. Mostly doesn't matter
what you select for your cantrip at this
level. Uh, and then for your spell
selection, you can go back for an
earlier game control spell or utility
spell. Something like invisibility can
be very useful to the party. Um, you can
get a second copy of fog cloud, that
kind of uh, scenario. Or you can pick up
fireball if you want additional AOE
damage. There's a lot of different
options that you have for your spells at
this level. The one that I like most is
picking up sleeptorm. This is a control
spell and it requires concentration, but
it's such a powerful spell that it's
just great to have access to this
gigantic AoE ice surface even in the
late game. For our metamagic, we're
going to go ahead and take heightened
spell. Um, this is very powerful because
a lot of enemies might survive taking
half damage from our uh our damage
spells. heighten spell will guarantee
that they take full damage by giving
them disadvantage. So, you can use this
to guarantee enemy deaths. It's not
going to be one that you're using as
often as a more control focused
character, but still pretty useful
overall to the shadow sorcerer. Level
11, we get to take shadow walk, which
gives us an amazing bonus action
teleport, which we can use pretty much
for free. And we get distance spell for
free as well, so we can respspec that to
a different uh metamagic like uh careful
spell. mostly doesn't matter what other
meta magic you pick. Extended spell can
be useful for some spells as well. Um,
but the main thing here is that this is
just infinite use misty step. So, it
gives this character incredible
positioning opportunities and ability to
get out of trouble. We also get six
level spells including globe of
invulnerability, one of the most
important utility spells in the game.
Just instant win some encounters. A lot
of late game encounters are pure damage
races and Globe of invulnerability wins
those instantly. Finally, at character
level 12, we have a couple different
options. We can take a feat here um in
order to grab our ability improvement
and level up our charisma to maximum, or
we can take another uh and we can take
another sorcerer spell, one of the
earlier utility spells, whatever you
feel like your party is missing at this
point. You will now have a good sense of
what you feel like you don't have, or
just chain lightning for additional
damage. The other option at level 12 is
simply to take a level of wizard. Now,
if you do respspec into taking a level
of wizard, you're going to want to use a
respspec and take this at first level
and then you can learn a bunch of
scrolls. This gives you a lot of utility
scrolls available. Um, the most
important of these is conjure elemental,
which you can learn and then use your
six level spell slot on a Mermadon
summon. You don't need the wizard level
earlier because although it gives you
more spell access, it delays access to
your higher level spells. So, I wouldn't
take the wizard level until level 12,
but respspecking to take wizard at level
one when you hit level 12 gives this
character tremendous amount of
additional utility. You don't really
need higher charisma because remember,
we are not using our
um we we don't have a lot of spells that
care about the save DCs and the ones
that do are just damage. So, you'll
still deal good damage to enemies. So,
this character can get away with taking
one fewer ASI in order to get a vastly
expanded spell pool. So, either taking a
a last level of sorcerer is good, taking
one level of wizard and then
respspecking to place it at level one is
generally speaking even better. For
items for this character, one of the
great things about the shadow sorcerer
in this party is that it is almost
completely item independent. It does
pretty much everything that you need
just on the base strength of the
character alone. And because you don't
need the save DC items, particularly on
this character, they're free to go on
other characters. So my advice for
itemization for your shadow sorcerer is
have fun with it. Use all the wild and
wacky items that you've always looked
for a home for but never been able to
fit into a build. Things like, I don't
know, the Jibus of the Worshipful
Servant or the Burnished Ring, which
have cool effects, but typically are
hard to fit into parties. There are some
specific items that you're definitely
going to want to use, though. This is
going to be your robe of the weave
character. Um, this of course is the
most powerful wizard and sorcerer armor
in the game. Um, so you're going to want
to use it on this character in
combination with mage armor for high
armor class. And this will also be your
marahesh gear character as well. Since
we're using mage armor, you can use the
bracers of defense to increase your
armor class even further or the gloves
of dexterity. Marahesh gear gives this
party even more uh upfront burst damage
as well as letting you reset your sixle
spell slots. So you can, for example,
use condra elemental from a condra
elemental scroll uh that you've learned
and then also still have access to globe
of invulnerability or upcasted lower
level spells and so on. Um, another
great item for this character is the
amulet of greater health. Again, we
prioritized taking constitution, but if
you have the amulet of greater health,
you can drop your constitution down to
eight. boost this character's
constitution up to 23, giving it
significant increases to its hit points
and ability to maintain concentration on
spells. Also nice because you'll get
this around the point when you respspec
to put lip wizard at level one, which
costs you constitution save proficiency,
so you instead just boost your
constitution to massive levels and still
no longer ever drop concentration,
especially in combination with the plus
five bonus that you're getting from your
allies. Also, be sure to carry a large
selection of utility scrolls on this
character. The main weakness of the
shadow sorcerer is that you get
relatively limited scroll access. So,
making sure to carry piles of scrolls
that you think might be useful. This is
going to be the character that's
typically going to cast them, especially
scrolls of um spells that don't require
concentration because you'll often be
concentrating on haste or darkness. But
having non-conentration utility spells
can be extremely helpful to make sure
that you always have relevant actions to
do. And for our final character, the
only thing that we're really missing
from this party is healing and support.
So, we're going to tie the entire party
together with a dedicated support
character that will provide healing,
buffs, control for enemies, guaranteed
lockdown for fights that would otherwise
be difficult, and a ton of utility and
support effects for our party. This is
also the perfect scenario to play a
glamourbard in because we have two melee
allies who can make excellent use of the
bonus hit points from Mantle of
Inspiration and will be able to charm
enemies for us very reliably by moving
next to them and then deliberately
provoking attacks of opportunity uh in
order to charm enemies and guarantee
lockdown with Mantle of Majesty. We also
have the bonus to saving throws from the
paladin and a great defensive setup with
our other allies. So, we will never drop
concentration on Mantle of Majesty,
allowing this character to once per long
rest just outright win a fight without
having to expend any other resources.
The additional short rest that we get
from Song of Rest is also very very
useful for our Hexblade as well. So, the
glamourbard um in combination with the
uh star druid who also gives us even
less ability to fail concentration saves
and so on uh is going to allow this
party to be even more solid and even
more
unkillable. Now, although this is going
to be primarily a bard build, we're
going to be multiclassing and we're
going to start with a level of druid.
That way we can still tie our save DCs
for items and scrolls to charisma by
taking bard second. Um, and druid gives
us a lot of awesome utility in the early
game. For our cantrip selection for this
character, we're going to go ahead and
pick up guidance and resistance. We
don't want to take combat cantrips on
druid cuz those would use wisdom and
we're going to be boosting our charisma.
And guidance and resistance are two
must-have utility spells for every party
in the game. So, this will make the uh
our skill checks and any saving throws
that we have to make for story events
and dialogue vastly easier now that we
have access to those from this
character. For our ability score
selection, we're going to go ahead and
pick up uh we're going to clear all of
these. We're going to take 16 in
charisma. And for this character, we'll
also be taking 16 dexterity rather than
constitution. While we do need to
maintain um saving throws, this
character is going to have excellent
armor class. So, we'll very rarely get
hit. So, unlike the sorcerer, I think
we're better off taking higher
initiative and AC from higher dexterity.
We'll also be using one of the uncapped
medium armors most likely, so getting
the full benefit of that dexterity. And
then, of course, all of our stats are
going to be or all of our effects are
going to be tied to charisma, so we want
to max that as much as possible. If you
want this to be your party face, that
does mean you have to take a background
that gives you persuasion proficiency um
because druids don't naturally get
access to it. And we're going to want to
use our free barb skill on taking slight
of hand cuz this will also be our
lockpicking character. You could also
take a background that gives you uh
slight of hand like urchin to get slight
of hand and stealth. Uh either way works
just fine, but making sure that you have
both persuasion and slight of hand. So
you need to get one of those from your
background on this character. Other than
that, we're going to go ahead and just
take perception and insight um skills
that will be useful in dialogue. We have
our druid spells as well, which are very
much worth mentioning because that
allows this party member to bring
Longstrider and enhance leap. Um, of
course, you can have a a camp caster
cast long strider, but this gives you
the two super important level one ritual
spells. Um, allowing your party to all
move faster and have a lot more mobility
in combat. So, getting access to those
is excellent.
Character level two. We're immediately
going to multiclass and start taking
levels of bard. For our cantrip
selection on bard here, we're going to
go ahead and take vicious mockery. This
gives us a combat spell and it's also
very funny to use. This character can
also pick up other utility spells. A
second mage hand is pretty useful cuz
it's on a short rest cool down. You can
take minor illusion as well for another
copy of that. Uh, this character can
also take light if you want your shadow
sorcerer to take a different um cantrip,
but most of the time you're just going
to take friends if this is going to be
your party face. For our spell selection
here, we're going to take um dissonant
whispers, which is the most important
combat spell for a bard to have access
to. And this will allow us to lock down
enemies in the early game. And we will
also be taking uh healing word and cure
wounds. Since this character is going to
be our buff on heal item character,
sometimes we're going to want to use
cure wounds as an action in order to
trigger those effects because we have a
more important bonus action. And this
character is going to be a star droid
with access to chalice healing.
Sometimes you want to trigger the free
chalice healing using an action rather
than a bonus action so that you can then
for example um use an, you know, drink a
potion or something like that. So having
access to both gives you flexibility for
using your actions more effectively in
combat. Your last spell here is kind of
up to you. If you want something like
disguise self, then this is the place to
take it. Tasha's hideous laughter is
also a great utility spell for locking
down bosses. So that's what I'm going to
recommend from a combat perspective. Of
course, this is a bard build, so make
sure you take the right instrument or
you're going to ruin the entire party.
And then for our ability scores here,
you can take slight of hand to make sure
that this character can provide the
lockpicking that your party needs as
well. Level three, we get our second
level of bard, giving us song of rest
and an additional spell. Again, what
spell you take here is sort of up to
you. you can pick up um like for flavor
spells. Things like disguise, self, or
speak with animals if this character is
your party face. Heroism is also useful
in some encounters in the early game.
Thunderwave can be good utility for
pushing enemies away from you. Any of
those uh are great options. We'll be
replacing these level one spells later
on. So, what you pick here is just to
get you through the early game.
And then at bard level three, we get to
take College of Glamour, which gives us
Mantle of Inspiration so that we can use
our inspiration dice to buff our allies.
And if enemies manage to hit them,
they'll get charmed. This has no saving
throw, and if enemies manage to land an
attack, very difficult to do against our
party who has radiating orbs, uh,
darkness, and so on, then they will
become charmed and have to choose a
different target, which is going to be
almost impossible because of how much
lockdown we have available. and how many
uh defensive options we have. So, this
character gets to really disrupt the
very very few fail cases for your party
members. Um, if they happen to be
running into any sort of trouble, Mantle
of Inspiration bails them out of it. It
also just increases the total hit point
pool of your party dramatically. At this
level, it's not that much, but as we
continue to level, we're going to
increase the total HP of our party
enormously, which again, given how much
we're multiplying our effective hit
points with our awesome defenses, means
that each of these temp HP is worth a
lot more than the five that's listed on
the number here, right? We're taking
half damage from every spell cuz we'll
always pass our saving throws against
spells. And we're taking on average like
a tenth of a damage that attacks do
because enemies will be so stacked up
with radiating orb and darkness effects
that only one in a very small number of
attacks are going to hit or one in a
very large number of attacks are going
to hit. For our expertise here, we're
going to go ahead and take slight of
hand expertise and persuasion expertise
so we can be both the best party face
and the best uh lockpicking character.
Again, if this isn't your party face,
you can take perception expertise or
something like that in order to just
provide even more utility. And for our
second level spells, we're going to go
ahead and grab another copy of Cloud of
Daggers. This just gives us a great
combat spell for the early game. So,
very, very helpful to have access to
that. We can also replace our early game
uh pick here. We're going to get rid of
heroism and add in hold person. The
automatic critical hits from hold person
are incredibly powerful for our two
melee characters. So very useful to have
a second copy of hold person here. At
character level five, we're actually
going to go back and take a second level
of druid so that we can pick up the the
incredible circle of the stars
abilities. This gives us the starry form
abilities as well as casts of guiding
bolt. Now, these will use our wisdom um
to target, but that's still often fairly
hitable, especially because we will be
using a lot of gear that increases our
hit chance and uh save DC with spells.
So, we will sometimes be able to use
these guiding bolts. Anyways, we get a
we get guidance as a cantrip known. So,
if you really want to optimize, you can
respspec the character to take a
different cantrip at level one so you're
not doubling up on guidance. But mostly
we get these starry forms which allow us
to do radiant damage or additional
healing. Um the chalice healing gives us
bonus healing whenever we are uh
whenever we heal. So we get an
additional free action heal whenever we
use a healing spell like our healing
word or cure wounds. So this is going to
let us pass out the buff on heal item
effects much more efficiently in the
later game. And in the early game, the
dragon form gives us a way to apply
radiating orb effects extremely easily
while also preventing us from losing
concentration on our very powerful
spells. For prepared spells at this
level, we're going to add in um create
or destroy water. Although a couple
because of course create water will let
us set up burst damage combos with cone
of cold later on and it's just extremely
useful to have in a number of encounters
throughout the game. Though another
spell to be aware of is fogcloud. This
doesn't have a saving throw and blinds
enemies without a saving throw. You're
usually going to be using darkness
instead of fogcloud, but it can still be
pretty
useful. Level five, we're going back to
bard and we're going to go ahead and
continue to select more cantrips here.
Um, I'm going to recommend taking blade
ward. If you get into an emergency with
this character, you can spend your
action on blade ward and wait for help
from your allies. And that can be useful
especially because you can blade ward
and then as a bonus action mantle of
inspiration to give yourself a little
bit of additional hit points or healing
ward plus a chalice heal to heal back to
full and use blade ward to resist enemy
damage for a turn or two. Um that can be
very useful in a severe emergency. For
our spell selection at this level, we're
going to grab utility spells. So
something like invisibility is always
very useful, especially outside of
combat. So very useful to have for this
character. You can also pick up
enhancability. You don't usually want to
spend a level two spell slot on
r-rolling an ability check, but there's
a couple important ability checks in the
game, which enhance can be useful for.
And then for our feet, we are going to
go ahead and grab alert. This does leave
our save DCs relatively low at this
point, of course, but going first is
just that important. And this character
will be getting all of our save DC gear.
So, pretty much every item that
increases your save DC is going on this
character. So, we're going to take alert
and then we can delay uh improving our
charisma. We'll end up with only 18
charisma at the end of the the build,
but you can then increase that further
um or you can increase your save DC's
further, which is what you actually care
about with this
character. At level seven, we get bard
level five, which improves our BIC
inspiration. So, we can recast Mantle of
Inspiration a bunch more because it now
comes back on a short rest. And also uh
at level five, we get to Mantle of
Inspiration three characters for eight
hit points instead of two characters for
five hit points. So the amount of
effective HP that we're getting goes up
significantly. We also get third level
spells. And this character now gets some
incredible uh crowd control spells.
We're going to go ahead and grab
hypnotic pattern for this character.
We're also going to replace one of our
lower level spells. you are no longer
very likely to be concentrating on cloud
of daggers um on this character,
although it can still be very useful. Uh
but instead, I'm going to suggest having
glyph of warding, so you can spend a
third level spell slot. Remember, we
have third and fourth level spell slots
on this character cuz we have two caster
levels from druid as well. Um, so glyph
of warding can give you a lot of damage
types and is a non-conentration damage
option for when this character needs
that cuz we're often going to be
concentrating on a control spell or of
course on mantle of majesty. This level
we're getting mantle of majesty which
again we can make a no save control
effect. This is incredibly uh against
enemies who are charmed. There's no
saving throw for the charm if they hit
your ally and then there's no saving
throw against mantle of majesty. So, we
get to cast command as a bonus action
once per uh for 10 turns, once per long
rest, which just outright wins some of
the most difficult boss fights in the
game. There's a couple bosses like
Merkel that this party can otherwise
struggle with. Um, Mantle of Majesty
trivializes those encounters and patches
the only weakness remaining in the party
alongside all of the support and utility
that this character is providing. for
spell selection at this level. Again,
you can go back and grab a utility spell
like enhancibility. You can also grab
plant growth. Plant growth in
combination um or you can also grab
plant growth. Plant growth in
combination with hunger of Hadar, which
of course our uh warlock has is
absolutely devastating. Enemies can't
get out of the hunger of Hadar because
they can't target a jump to leave the
plant growth and they move at one
quarter speed. So, it just instant wins
a lot of encounters.
At character level seven, we're getting
fourthle bard spells. And here we're
going to go ahead and grab freedom of
movement. This is just a pure panic
button. If an ally gets stunned in a
really bad situation, you can break them
out of it with freedom of movement. And
again, this character is about
insurance. You're you're here to buff
your allies hit points, prevent enemies
from chaining lots of attacks against
them because they'll get charmed halfway
through and be unable to continue
attacking and provide all the the
healing um and everything effects that
your party otherwise is lacking. So
having a spell that removes an ally from
stun gives you again even more insurance
with your
party. Level 10, we get our second feat.
So, we're going to go ahead and boost
our charisma up to 18. Here for our
spell selection at this level, you have
a lot of different options. Um, but we
can just grab enhancability to make sure
that we can pass the important late game
skill checks that we need to be able to
to pass uh in for story events like the
mirror. And then at level 9, we get
fifth level spells. Here, we're going to
go ahead and grab hold monster. This is
again a very powerful control spell and
this character will have really high
save DCs. We're not stacking infinite
DCs with Arcane Acuity, but our save DCs
will still be basically irresistible.
And then finally, a character level 12.
We get to hit uh bard level 10,
maximizing our mantle of inspiration.
So, it now targets all four of our party
members for 11 hit points. You can also
use this on Nimbus or other summons,
which increases their hit point total
dramatically. And Nimbus is especially
good because um if Nimbus survives a
hit, he'll also split into mini Nimbus.
So this character buffs up Nimbus
tremendously as well. Uh we get
expertise into more skills. So you can
go ahead and pick up expertise and
additional dialogue skills or whatever
you happen to be using most frequently.
we can take uh as our cantrip true
strike of course to annoy people in the
YouTube comments even more than they
were already driven ballistic at the
mere mention of a glamour bard. Um and
then for our spell selection at this
point you should have a really good idea
of what you feel like your party is
missing and you can go back and grab
that. You can take knock if you're
having trouble opening locks or any
other of these utility spells or just a
good control spell in the form of
something like confusion. Um polymorph
can actually be useful in some
encounters as well. Greater invisibility
lets you cheese some encounters. So,
there's a lot of really solid options.
Of course, what we're really here for,
though, is the magical secrets that we
get access to at um at bard level 10.
And the first of these is always going
to be conjure elemental, allowing you to
summon murmurons. You can do it with the
the wizard as well, but Conondreelm, if
you um aren't a wizard uh with your
shadow sorcerer, if you decided to take
12 levels of shadow magic, you still get
the Mermodon summon because remember, we
have six level spell slots, just not
sixle spells. So, we can use conjur
elemental with our sixle spell in order
to summon a Mermadon. That buffs up our
party, our party for the entire day
massively. We already have two copies of
counter spell. Normally on a bard, you
would always take counter spell as your
second one of the uh magical secrets
here, but for this character instead,
we're going to take mass healing word.
That's because in the late game, this is
going to transition to applying the buff
on heal items and spending most of the
day in chalice form. So, mass healing
word will give all of your allies those
buffs as well as triggering chalice for
additional healing. Uh, unfortunately,
Warden of Vitality doesn't work with
chalice healing. it doesn't re-trigger
chalice. Otherwise, that would be a
really cool combo. Um, but the best way
to do this is going to be to use mass
healing word in order to buff all of
your allies. And for items for this
character, you're going to execute the
same swap that you did with the paladin,
but of course in reverse where this
character is going to be using the um
radiating orb item set as soon as you
get access to star druid form because
the dragon breath applies these
radiating orb effects extremely
efficiently. So, Callus Glow,
Coruscation, Boots of Stormy Clamor,
Gloves of Bellagerant Skies will let you
stack up radiating orb effects very
easily. And then in the late game,
you're going to swap to the Hell
Riders's Pride or the Reviving Hand, the
late game version of the Hell Riders's
Pride and the Whispering Promise in
order to stack those buff on heal
effects on your party members,
especially using Mass Healing Word. In
addition to that, you are looking for
two things on this character. Defense,
because you don't want this character to
get hit. very important not to drop
concentration on your control spells and
you're looking for increases to your
save DCs. So items like the the hood of
the weave, ketherix shield is going to
be the shield that you're going to use,
which of course this character does have
shield proficiency from uh druid. Um the
hood of the weave gives you plus two to
your save DCs. Mel's first staff is a
good staff option to increase your save
DCs as well. Um so this character can
benefit from those items tremendously.
And then defensive options, things like
the ring of protection, cloak of
displacement, that kind of item will
allow this character to avoid getting
hit. The ring of fay wild sparks also is
worth mentioning. This has a secret
property of increasing your spell safe
DC. It's not listed in the tool tip, but
it increases your spell DC's by plus
one. Important to know that, and this
character will get that. Um, and the
elixir of battle mage's power again is
the best elixir for this character. Just
boosting your save DCs as much as
possible. The boots of striding are also
excellent for this character. Uh, once
you've swapped off the boots of stormy
clamor cuz then you will be unable to be
knocked prone. Again, you have medium
armor proficiency on this character. So,
you're totally fine to equip the boots
of striding. And a medium armor like the
armor of agility will increase your
armor class tremendously with this item
setup. This character has 24 AC and
always gives disadvantage to enemies
even when not standing in darkness. So
is going to be almost impossible for
most enemies to hit and they will very
rarely get targeted. Finally, of course,
this is a darkness party, so it can be
very helpful to have a blind immunity
effect. If you are using the uh char
spear on your paladin, then this
character gets the Eversight ring. If
not, this character probably wants the
hell dusk helmet. It will reduce your um
save DCs, but the Hell Dusk helmet gives
you in even higher uh spell saves,
critical hit immunity, which is also not
nothing for this character as well, and
immunity to blindness, so you can
operate safely in darkness. This
character is also a pretty good
candidate for the Heldusk armor if you
want a party member to use that. The
armor of agility is I think a little bit
better uh honestly in the late game, but
the hell dusk armor is legendary and
very cool um and gives you some
advantages. Slightly higher armor class,
although lower saving throws because um
the armor of agility gives you plus two
bonuses to your saves.
So to sum it all up, this party has
truly ridiculous amounts of lockdown
with almost every party member having
irresistible or n irresistible lockdown
effects that prevent allies uh prevent
enemies from doing anything. Um great
support from the glamourbard which
provides excellent insurance and
incredible damage from the two melee
characters especially when twin hasted
by the shadow sorcerer. You also have
darkness abuse. You use radiating orbs
and reverberation, use the buff on heal
items, so we get to use almost all of
the most powerful and synergistic item
sets in the game. So, not only are all
of these builds really strong in
isolation, they're incredibly strong
together because enemies are either dead
or locked down um very, very easily by
these builds working in tandem. I've
used this party extensively in it was
the party that I built for my first um
patch 8 honor mode playthrough and had
an absolute blast with it. uh and found
it extraordinarily powerful. So, this is
play tested and everything. Um, and I
hope that it helps you with your patch 8
runs. I think that this is a great way,
especially if you're looking for
something a little bit new with the new
subasses, but also want to get an honor
mode win. This is an excellent way to do
it. As always, my friends, I hope that
you've enjoyed the video. And of course,
if you have, feel free to leave a
comment and hit like. Helps me out with
the algorithm, so I really appreciate
you taking the time to do that. And you
can subscribe to my channel for more
Balders's Gate 3 build guides and other
strategy game analysis. Cheers, folks.
I'll catch you next time.
