Hello my friends and welcome back to
another Balders's Gate 3 full party
building guide for honor mode. Hope
you're all doing well. Today we're
covering the best no rest party in
Balders's Gate 3. So this party operates
entirely without ever needing to rest
either short or long with no important
cooldowns, resources, or abilities tied
to resting. So you simply never have to
think about what to do next because the
answer can always be keep going and
going and going. Whether you want to
literally never rest for a challenge run
or just minimize resting to preserve
dayong buffs or avoid having to think
about resource management, this party
gives you all the tools that you need to
win fights every single fight forever.
Each build is very powerful in its own
right, and when combined, they form an
even more powerful and synergistic hole
with everything that you need to
dominate honor mode without ever
stopping. Just like all of my other
honor mode party guides, this part is
designed to work together extremely
naturally. We cover all of the skills
that you need and uh utilities that you
need outside of combat across the
builds. There are no overlapping item
requirements. In fact, for this
particular party, there are very few
specific item requirements at all. And
we don't need any specific story
choices. You can use them with any
companions. So, no matter how you want
to play your run, you can use this party
to do it. Before I begin, I do want to
take a quick moment to say thank you so
much to eight databits for the $2
donation, Ryantology for the $20, AON
for the $10, Wanda Husbando for the £5,
and EK and Courtney for becoming channel
members. Thank you so much, my friends.
I really appreciate the support. It
really means a lot to me. All right,
let's just keep on going. So, let's take
a second to talk about why you might
want to play a No Resting Party. So
obviously for an experienced player that
can be an interesting challenge run
trying to complete the game with no
rests or as few rests as possible. But
for a newer player, this party is also I
think pretty attractive and very
powerful because by virtue of building
without cooldowns or long rest resources
that you need to manage. It takes a lot
of the burden away from the player.
These builds are powerful and extremely
consistent and you don't have to make a
lot of complicated decisions in order to
play them. they will always just work.
Rather than having to choose between 200
different spells, you just get builds
that are always going to be powerful.
So, if you're a little newer to the game
and intend to play through the game
while still resting and stuff normally,
this party can still be an excellent
choice because it just gives you a lot
less complexity that you have to stay on
top of while still being incredibly
powerful in every combat. Let's start
with our first build, which specializes
in overwhelming upfront damage. With
this character in the party, the most
dangerous enemy in every encounter will
start the fight dead, which will make
the subsequent fight significantly
easier. As always, I'm going to be going
over these builds uh in the video, of
course, but I will also link in the
description to the full build guide for
each of these characters. So, if you
want more detail on any of these builds,
definitely go check those out. This
character is going to be a classic gloom
assassin, a gloom stalker, ranger,
assassin, rogue multiclass who can just
delete enemies at the beginning of every
fight. Normally, you would start with
rogue here in order to get extra skills,
but we're going to cover those with a
different character in this party. So,
this character is going to start with
ranger to maximize our combat power as
soon as possible. So, level one, we're
taking ranger. For our favorite enemy
pick, we're going to take Ranger Knight.
Ranger Knight is uh useful in some cases
where there's a couple pieces of heavy
armor that we might be interested in
throughout the game. Mostly the reason
that we're taking this though is because
none of these others particularly do
anything for us. For natural explorer,
we're going to take wasteland wanderer
fire. Fire damage is the most common
damage type in the game. So having
resistance to it makes this character
significantly most common elemental
damage type in the game obviously. So
having resistance to it makes this
character significantly harder to kill.
For our ability score selection, this
character only cares about having
dexterity as well as hit points and some
saving throws. So we get to get away
with the greediest possible attribute
split in the game. We're going to start
with 17 dexterity, 16 in constitution,
which will increase our hit points
dramatically, and then 15 wisdom.
Obviously, we're going to even out these
odd numbers later on. If you want to,
you can start with 12 strength for a
little extra jump distance and carry
weight in the early game um and and
start like so and then switch to this
attribute setup later on with a
respspec. But respspecking is also
resting, so I'm going to present these
builds to avoid respspeing as well. This
character just keys everything off of
dexterity, so we just want that to be as
high as possible. For our skill
selection here, there aren't any uh
particular skills that we desperately
need other than stealth. This character,
of course, is going to um try to kill
enemies from stealth frequently. So, you
definitely need to pick stealth, and we
will later get stealth expertise when we
take levels in rogue. This character
also can provide perception. As a
ranger, we get access to it. We've got
good wisdom, which we will increase as
we continue to go through the game. So,
this can be our trap finding character
as well. And then for your last skill
selection here, it doesn't really matter
what you pick. So you can pick whatever
you want for flavor or take athletics or
acrobatics to make you a little harder
to shove around if enemies try to push
you. That's it for level one. Let's keep
going. At level two, we're continuing to
take levels in ranger. And as a an
archer, we're going to of course take
the archery fighting style. This gives
us a plus two bonus to hit, which will
offset our sharpshooter penalty and also
just make us significantly more
dangerous, especially in the early game.
Archery fighting style is incredibly
powerful, so a real draw to having an
archer in your party. For our spell
selection here, we're going to take two
ritual spells, which don't require spell
slots to cast if used outside of combat.
With enhanced sleep and longstrider, we
get these spells. Um, enhanced sleep you
can cast before combat starts on your
party to give them extra mobility. Long
strider you can cast on everyone at the
beginning of the day. Since you're not
resting, that day will last forever. So,
you'll always have the long strider
buff. But this is basically a way to get
huge amounts of value from your ranger
spell casting even though you can never
refresh the spell slots because you're
not spending them in the first place.
Level three, we get to choose our
subclass. And the subclass that we're
going to pick is, of course,
Gloomstalker. Gloomstalker Ranger gets a
plus three bonus to initiative, which is
awesome. This is an incredibly powerful
ability. And it means that we can safely
skip alert on this character with the
plus three with high dexterity, of
course, from being an archer and from uh
initiative bonuses from our gear. That
will give you plenty to win initiative
every time in honor mode. And then you
also get an additional attack on the
first turn of every combat. The tool tip
doesn't say it's an extra attack, but
it's a whole extra free attack and extra
movement speed. This is part of how
we're going to just delete enemies right
away. We can also hide as a bonus
action. So, we can do that and then
immediately disappear again. Make sure
that we're making all of our attacks
with advantage. Uh, for a spell
selection here, there are no more ritual
spells that we're super interested in.
You can take something like speak with
animals if you want to or you can pick
hunter mark and just try to maintain
concentration on it as long as possible.
If you are literally never long resting,
this will eventually go away. If you are
long resting only occasionally, then uh
the hunter's mark you can just use and
because you can concentrate on it as
long as you want until you lose
eventually lose concentration on the
spell from taking damage, it will last
for a very very long time. So, you can
still get good value out of Hunter's
Mark, even if you're resting very
infrequently.
Character level four, we're going to
take our first feat. And of course, as
an archer, the feat is going to be
sharpshooter. Yes, this does come with a
to-h hit penalty, but remember, almost
all of our attacks are going to be made
with advantage because we can hide as a
bonus action. So, our first attack is
always going to be from stealth. And uh
we have the plus two bonus from the
archery fighting style. ble to offset
that. You can use high ground and stuff
like that to gain the extra hit hit
bonus. And the plus 10 damage is an
incredibly large boost to our damage,
especially because we're getting that
two times over thanks to playing a Gloom
Stalker Ranger. So, sharpshooter is a
massive DPS increase.
Level five, we're taking our fifth level
of Gloomstalker Ranger, and that gets us
extra attack. Obviously, this doubles
our damage output or increases it by 50%
in the first round of combat when we
already had two attacks. Um, which is an
incredibly powerful addition to our
build and will let us just delete
enemies early on. This character is at
this point extremely consistent. We just
do solid constant excellent damage, but
we're also going to add even more burst
damage as we continue to level up. For
our spell selection at this level, we
get yet more value from picking ritual
spells because we can take silence. It's
not mentioned anywhere in the tool tip,
but silence is a ritual spell. So, if
you cast it before combat starts, it
doesn't cost you a spell slot as long as
you use it outside of combat. This can
fully shut down enemy spellcasters,
especially if you have a way to keep
them in place, which later on this
character and several of our other
characters will. So, silence can be an
incredibly powerful tool against enemy
spellcasters. It's also really good in
honor mode because there's a lot of
honor mode bosses that have legendary
actions that require them to make some
sort of noise, which silence prevents.
So, uh even though we're not picking
spells that um you need to cast in every
fight and then rest to refresh, you
still get a lot of value out of this
rangers spellcasting.
At character level six, we've gotten
most of what we need from Gloomstalker
Ranger now that we have extra attack at
this point. So, we're going to
multiclass and we're going to take our
level of rogue. This gets us sneak
attack, which lets us do an extra d6 of
damage once per turn. Um, which doesn't
sound like a lot at this point in the
game, but every little bit counts. The
whole point of this character is 200 to
zero important targets before fights
even begin. So even that little bit of
extra damage can make the difference
between leaving an enemy alive and
killing them outright. It'll also later
be doubled when we get the automatic
critical hits from our assassin rogue
levels. We also get uh expertise and in
two skills and an additional skill
selection here. Now obviously one of the
skills we're going to do is we're going
to put expertise in stealth. The other
one doesn't matter as much. You could
learn slight of hand and then put
expertise in it. will already have
another character with slight of hand
expertise, but having a backup
lockpicker and disarming character is
always useful. You could put expertise
in another skill entirely if there's
something else that you want. Expertise
and perception also makes this character
really good at finding trap finding
traps and hidden things. So, that's
another option as well. Um, this one is
a little more open to how you want to
play the character.
character level seven, we get our second
level of rogue, and that gets us cunning
action dash and disengage. We already
effectively have cunning action hide
from our gloomstalker level, but being
able to dash as a bonus action gives us
a ton of mobility, it means that this
character is extremely safe to play.
Combined with our high constitution and
damage resistances that we're going to
keep getting as well. Um, it's very hard
and good armor class, it's very hard to
take this character down. And being so
mobile, we can get out of fights that
are going badly if such a thing ever
happens to you. At level eight, we're
going to take our third level of rogue,
and we get to choose our rogue subclass.
Of course, the subclass that we're going
to pick is assassin rogue, which gives
us um advantage on attack roles that
against enemies that haven't taken a
turn yet, which means basically
advantage on all of our attacks because
most enemies that you're facing with
this party simply won't get a turn at
all. You're going to win initiative and
kill them before they ever act. We also
get any successful attack against a
surprised creature is a critical hit.
So, on the first round of combat, you're
going to be trying to start most of your
combats from stealth in order to get
these guaranteed crits, and this
character will simply just delete
enemies. We have three attacks in the
opening round of combat, cuz we get an
extra one from Gloomstalker Rogue. Three
automatic critical hits with a very high
damage character like this one is enough
to just delete most enemies and remove
all of their hit points. Um, then we
also when combat actually starts get to
go again. So you can use your attack uh
from stealth to hit an enemy, roll into
combat, and then go again with automatic
critical hits. So you're just going to
obliterate enemies cuz we effectively
get multiple turns at the start of
combat if you use this character's
abilities to enter combat. Most
characters will have used their action
when they attack in order to roll into
the initiative order. this character
gets that back and can just do the whole
thing over again, doubling your damage
output in the opening turn. At this
point, for a normal gloomstalker uh
assassin build, we would start taking
levels in battlem fighter because you
would want the ability uh for action
surge and the battlem maneuvers to
increase your damage even further. Those
require you to rest though. So for this
version of the character, we're just
going to keep leveling in rogue and
ranger in order to get multiple feats
and to level up um as smoothly as
possible. So we're going to take our
fourth level of rogue here and we'll get
an ability improvement. We'll take a
point in dexterity and a point in wisdom
to even out these odd numbers. And now
we're hitting in uh more accurately and
doing even more damage. Then
it's back to ranger because again we
want to get another feat uh very
quickly. So we get another favored enemy
pick. Of course here we're going to take
mageer so we can get true strike and
annoy people in the YouTube comments.
And we also get to have wasteland
wanderer with resistance to cold damage.
Cold is the second most dam uh common
damage type um for elemental damage
after fire. Though poison is also useful
uh depending on what encounter
specifically you're coming up to next,
but cold is going to generally be more
useful in act three. So I prefer getting
these two.
Ranger level seven as a gloomstalker
ranger. We also gain proficiency in
wisdom and intelligence saves which
makes this character extremely
resilient. were already really hard to
kill with physical damage. Good AC, lots
of hit points, uh, resistances to
various elemental damage types. This
makes us incredibly hard to control with
damaging effects. So, it makes this
character very, very safe. We also get
another spell. Um, what spell you pick
here mostly doesn't matter. There's just
not any that you're going to be using
significantly. Though, you can
concentrate on pass without trace until
long rest. It will, as long as you
maintain concentration, give you a huge
stealth bonus.
Finally, at ranger level eight, we get
land stride for difficult terrain, which
is pretty useful for maneuvering around,
and we get another feat. Here, we're
just going to take an ability
improvement and max out our dexterity to
max out our accuracy and damage with our
bow shots. And that's the first
character, of course. Let's talk about
items next. For this character's items,
we really only need a few things. We
need a good bow. We need to maximize our
damage with that bow and we need to not
die. So for our weapon, we're going to
be using the Titan string bow alongside
an elixir of hill giant strength. The
Titan string bow adds your strength
modifier to your damage. So the elixir
lets you uh increase your strength and
get plus five damage on all your shots.
Since we're not going to be resting, the
elixir will last forever, making it
basically a permanent buff. So you don't
even need to stockpile elixir with this
build. If you really hate using elixirs
at all, you can use the bow of the
banshee early. This gives you some extra
um crowd control in the early game and
also is going to deal more damage
because we have other characters that
are providing fear as well. So that's
some nice synergy also. Uh and then in
the late game, you can swap to ga male.
This setup will do a little bit less
damage than the titan string bow setup,
but is another great option. We also of
course want to increase our damage when
we fire these bows. So, we're looking
for items like the gloves of archery
that make you do extra damage. Later on,
we'll want to swap to something like the
flawed Helldust gloves that do extra
damage dice because those will be
multiplied by our automatic critical
hits. So, glove slot should be
increasing your damage. For your armor
in the early game, you're going to be
using most likely the graceful cloth.
The extra dexterity is very important
for this character. You want to make
sure you're hitting with your attacks
and again doing as much damage as
possible. So, the graceful cloth just
with the extra decks makes you extremely
effective of that at that. Uh, you will
have relatively low AC early game, but
this is an archer who's playing mostly
from stealth, so that's not a big deal.
In the late game, you can swap to a more
defensive setup like the armor of
agility, which gives you great saving
throws and excellent armor class across
the board. One of the um uncapped medium
armors like the yuanti scale mill can
also be a good option, but the armor of
agility is going to be the best endgame
setup. for your helmet. The marksmanship
hat in the early game, again, bonuses to
your attack roles. And then the late
game, also bonuses to your attack roles
with the mask of soul perception, which
gives you extra attacks and initiative,
as well as perception checks, which this
character is doing. So, this bonus,
which usually is just flavor text, is
actually relevant for this character.
Another important setup for this
character is in the late game
especially, you can use the snow burst
ring, which allows you to create an ice
surface every time you do cold damage
alongside the draketh throat glaive. Use
the draketh throat glaive to cast
draconic elemental weapon um on whatever
weapon you're using. Make sure you get
this on the right weapon because this is
a long rest refreshed ability, but you
can cast it on whatever bow you're using
to add cold damage to that. And then
every time you fire an arrow, it creates
an ice surface. Enemies are going to be
falling prone very frequently. So
combined with the fear effects from
other characters, this does a tremendous
amount of crowd control just passively
every time you shoot your arrows. So it
makes this party extremely dangerous.
One of the downsides, of course, of
playing a no rest party is you don't get
control spells, but a lot of the builds
replicate that effect. We're also going
to add in the strange conduit ring. We
want damage and bonus damage on our
attacks. And specifically, we want bonus
damage that comes in the form of extra
dice. So, the strange conduit ring um
will add an extra damage die while we're
concentrating on a spell. That's very
powerful for this character cuz damage
dice are multiplied when you crit and we
get automatic crits. We're usually going
to be concentrating on a spell um like
Hunter's Mark uh because even though you
will eventually lose concentration on it
for most parties, if you're resting at
all, you'll get it back. And if you're
not resting at all, you can keep
concentration on it for a long time. But
also, this character is one of the
better characters um in if you don't
want to micromanage trying to stay
concentrating on Hunter's Mark. This is
probably the best character to carry the
silver pendant, which gives you
guidance. This character, of course, is
not the one actually making lockpicking
checks and not the one actually
performing dialogue checks. So, it's the
best one to cast guidance. And having a
concentration cantrip means that you can
set up the strange conduit ring. So you
can do extra damage by casting guidance
on a character, concentrating on it for
a combat uh because it's a cantrip. So
you can just keep concentrating and then
use the strange conduit ring for extra
damage. We also get a shield on this
character and you're going to want to
use the adamantine shield. This
character is incredibly resilient to
incoming damage. So having u immunity to
critical hits is really good for us cuz
it prevents damage spikes from
happening. So, the only thing that we're
really worried about, sudden bursts of
incoming damage, is prevented by the
adamantine shield. Finally, uh although
another character will likely be using
this in the early game, the knife of the
under mountain king just gives us extra
crit chance. So, this character can make
use of that as well in order to deal a
little bit more damage passively with
your melee weapon slot. All right,
that's build number one. Let's move on
to build number two. For our second
character, I've already mentioned that
one of the challenges for a no resting
run can be that you lack control
effects. Without easy access to spells,
a lot of the traditional ways that you
would control dangerous enemies aren't
available or are harder to use for this
party. However, we can build characters
that passively and permanently
crowdcontrol enemies. So, we're looking
for characters that every single turn
can apply extremely heavy debuffs or
brutal crowd control effects to enemies
without spending anything to do so.
Enter the great old one warlock. So, as
a warlock, of course, we get Eldrich
Blast. And as a great old one warlock,
when we hit an enemy with a critical
hit, that creature and nearby creatures
have to make a wisdom save or become
frightened. Frightened is a pretty
brutal debuff because it stops enemies
from moving. they get disadvantage on
their attack roles. Um, which means that
you're just going to defeat melee
enemies, anything that's not immune to
fear, as long as you can consistently
generate critical hits and make enough
attacks with Eldidge Blast. So, we're
going to build this character to do that
and to apply even more debuffs every
single turn so that we can effectively
uh destroy everything that enemies are
trying to do. For our cantrips, of
course, we're going to take Eldrich
Blast as this character's main damage
dealing and crowdcontrol tool. And then
we're also going to take friends. As a
charisma based character, this is going
to be our party face. So, of course, we
want friends to make us better at doing
that. Uh, we already know our subclass.
And so, for our spell selection here, it
mostly doesn't matter what you pick with
your warlock spells. We don't get access
to any ritual spells. So, um, what we
pick here is going to be somewhat
limited in utility, unless you're
resting more frequently with this party.
So, I'm just going to pick spells as
though we are resting a little more
often. Um, so that if you're using this
party and resting normally, you're going
to pick the spells that you would pick
in that case. So, we'll take dissonant
whispers and hex in order to increase
our damage output. For our ability score
selection here, we're going with a
classic warlock ability split of 16 in
dexterity, 14 in constitution, 16 in
charisma, and 12 in wisdom in order to
maximize our stats as much as possible.
For our skill selection, ideally with
this character, you have a background or
a character that has persuasion. If
you're using will for this, and it's a
warlock build, so you may well be, um,
then he naturally comes with persuasion.
Uh, but you don't, it's not required.
Um, you'll be able to pick it up from
class levels later on, even though
warlocks can't normally start with it,
but you can also grab it from a
background. Otherwise, we're just going
to put our skill points into as many
dialogue skills as possible so we can
handle being the party base.
At character level two, we're going to
take our second level of warlock because
then we get Eldrich invocations here.
Um, for our spell selection, if you are
resting more frequently, armor of Agthus
is the most useful of these remaining
spells. And then for our Eldrich
Invocation, of course, we're going to
take agonizing blast to maximize the
damage of our Eldrich Blast. And unlike
a normal Warlock, because we will not be
able to usually use darkness effectively
because we can't cast it. So, you're
relying on arrows and scrolls if you
want to use darkness. We're going to
take repelling blast. Repelling blast
gives us even more crowd control options
where we can push enemies around. So
starting with these two is incredibly
powerful and gives you a lot of
optionality for how you're going to move
enemies around the battlefield.
At character level three, this build
differs a little bit from how you would
normally build this character. So of
course, normally with a warlock, you
want to level your spell casting as much
as possible, but for a party that's not
intending to rest frequently, that's
much lower of a priority since warlock
spellcasting requires you to rest in
order to use it. So, we're immediately
going to multiclass out of Warlock, and
we're going to take a level of rogue.
This is going to let us get more
critical hits, which means that our
Eldrich blasts are going to um
crowdcontrol enemies with the frightened
condition much more reliably. So, we're
going to take a level of rogue. We get
our abilities here, and we get to add
persuasion if we didn't have it already,
and gain expertise in persuasion, as
well as expertise in whatever other
dialogue skill that we want. So, this
character can now have, say, persuasion
and intimidation expertise and be truly
excellent at passing dialogue skills for
your party. We're also going to add um
proficiency in insight. This is useful
to have as a party face. So, this
character can now pass most of the
dialogue checks that you want to roll.
Another good option for this character,
by the way, is if you play a gif Yankee,
you can set your astral knowledge to
intelligence and be better at
intelligence checks as well. But the
most important thing is that now we have
expertise in all of our important
dialogue skills.
Level four, we're going to take a second
level of rogue, which again gets us
bonus action hides and dashes, which for
a range spellcaster are incredibly
strong. And this whole party can operate
from stealth very easily since we have
lots of characters who are excellent at
making stealth checks. Now, this
character, you can also take stealth
expertise. You're probably not going to
be rolling stealth that frequently on
this character, but it is an option as
well.
Then at level five, this character is
also going to take assassin rogue, but
for a very different reason than the
gloomstalker ranger. We still of course
get our automatic critical hits against
surprised enemies and we're going to
start most of our fights from surprise.
But instead of being worried about the
damage, although the damage is also
really good on this character. The
reason we're doing this is cuz we're a
great old one warlock. Every time we get
a critical hit, which we'll now get
automatically, we frighten the enemy and
everything near them. So, this character
is going to be automatically passively
crowdcontrolling entire encounters just
by firing its Eldrich blasts, which is
something that you want to do anyways.
At character level six, we're going to
take our fourth level of rogue. And this
is just so that we can get a feat as
quickly as possible. Going up to level
six without a feat has been somewhat
difficult, so we're going to grab that.
Now, the feat we're going to take is
alert. this character doesn't get
natural bonuses to its initiative and
you want to always go before enemies so
that you get your automatic crits from
assassin. So, we want to make absolutely
certain that we pick that up right away.
One of the things I really love about
this no resting restriction is that it
actually makes builds like this more
creative. Normally, we would be forced
to level with warlock um at least up to
level five and get third level warlock
spells, but when you don't uh prioritize
those, you can do more interesting
leveling orders like with this build.
At level seven, we're going back into
warlock and taking our third level of
warlock, and we get a pack boon, which
lets us add a new dimension to the
character. Um, this character can
benefit from taking pact of the blade
because we can also uh as our spell take
shadow blade and this is going to give
us a pretty powerful tool for attacking
in melee. So, while we will still prefer
to sit at range, use Eldrich Blast to
crowdcontrol enemies when you want this
character to step up and do more damage,
having a shadow blade with pack of the
blade can be extremely powerful for
increasing our damage output. And since
Shadow Blade lasts until long rest, you
don't have to worry about the the spell
slot expenditure. You only ever need to
cast it once.
At level eight, we're going to take
Warlock level four, getting another
feat. And now that we can attack in
melee, we can take Booming Blade, which
of course increases our melee damage
even further when we want to do that.
We're also going to get another spell
here. It mostly doesn't matter what you
pick. Again, um for a character that is
not resting, none of these are going to
be particularly powerful. But you could
take hold person for example, if you are
resting a little more frequently, that
is going to be the
that's going to give you even more
guaranteed critical hits, which is
pretty strong. Remember that with
assassin rogue and the um shadow blade
and booming blade, you get guaranteed
crits with those melee attacks as well.
So, you can also just get enemies dead
in addition to hitting them with a fear
effect. We also get a feat here. So,
we're going to take an ASI and boost our
charisma. Of course, this character
wants to increase its charisma as much
as possible. It's also worth mentioning
for this character that this is the
character that would use Ethel's hair.
You would take um 17 starting charisma
and 10 starting wisdom. And so, this
character can benefit from that to
squeeze out extra charisma as well.
At level nine, we're going to take our
fifth level of warlock because that gets
us deepened packed. So now we get an
extra attack, and that makes us a pretty
dangerous melee threat um with our
guaranteed criticals when starting
combats. This character can output an
absurd amount of damage at the beginning
of fights. Alongside all the crowd
control that we're getting as well, we
also get a spell here. Uh what spell we
pick here again mostly doesn't matter.
Although if you're even if you're never
resting, having one emergency counter
spell in your back pocket can sometimes
still be useful. Um, so that's what I
would select. Or you can take something
like hunger of Hadar or more traditional
warlock spells if you're planning to
rest more frequently. For Eldrich
Invocations, we actually have a bunch of
choices here. This character again is
not going to use Devil's Sight um super
effectively because we're not casting
darkness. Although of course you can
still you you can still take devil's
sight and use scrolls and arrows in
order to uh have this character use
darkness. Still very powerful. But we
actually unlike most other warlocks get
to choose other Eldrich Invocations and
have them be good. Fendish vigor for
example is just seven extra hit points
for this character. Mask of many faces
makes us better at being the party face
cuz we can disguise oursel. And even one
with shadows is actually pretty nice for
this character. becoming invisible um as
long as we stand still is pretty good
for surprising enemies. So any of these
are cool options that you don't normally
see on Warlock builds. So I really like
the fact that we can take those. You can
also take uh beast speech if you want
speak with animals though. You can of
course just get that from a potion. I'm
going to take one with shadows cuz you
almost never see this and it's just neat
that this character can actually make
such good use of it.
At level 10 for this character, we
actually have a fairly interesting
choice. If we're boosting our charisma
using the mirror or Ethel's hair or
other sources of increases to our
charisma, which is the most important
thing for this character, then we can
take three levels of champion fighter to
get increased critical hits. Um, so that
in subsequent turns or in fights where
it's not practical to surprise enemies,
you can still get uh pretty frequent
critical hits and hit them with fear.
For this version of the build though,
we're just going to take another level
of warlock that gets us entropic ward,
which can help defend you. Imposing
disadvantage on an attack against you
can be a pretty useful reaction to keep
yourself alive in melee and the extra
advantage on attacks against enemies can
be useful as well. So, it gives this
character, which is otherwise somewhat
squishy, a little bit of resilience. For
our spell selection here, we're just
going to take normally powerful warlock
spells.
and then go to level seven where again
we get higher level spells. Again, these
mostly don't matter. Um, you could take
something like dimension door, which is
the most likely to be a like once per
game emergency panic button that you
might need. And then you get an Eldrich
Invocation. Normally, we would be taking
these types of spells uh that give you
extra um these types of things like
dreadful word, but for this character,
we want to take the passive or permanent
benefits, things like fish vigor,
devil's sight, or mask of many faces.
Finally, at level eight uh or at level
12, warlock level 8, we get to take
another feat. So, we get to choose
another spell. Again, the spell
selection here mostly doesn't matter,
though I will pick powerful spells like
fear in order to show what you would
take if you were building this character
normally. Um, and then finally, we get a
last feat in order to boost our charisma
to maximum. The alternative if you have
maximum charisma is that you will get
your champion fighter bonus critical hit
chance at this level, which does apply
to Eldrich Blast, so it makes fears more
powerful. For items for this character,
we want to maximize the damage of our
Eldrich blasts because that's going to
be our main attack that we're using
almost every turn. And we want to
increase the number of crowd control
effects that every Eldrich Blast applies
as much as possible. So, to start, the
best in slot uh chest item for this
character is the potent rogue. Now, this
does require a specific story choice, so
not every build will have it, but if you
do have it, it's going to increase the
damage of your Eldrich Blast
significantly. Alternatively, you can
just use any robe with a bonus to your
spell save DC or in the late game, this
character is a great candidate for the
hell dusk armor. Although we don't have
heavy armor proficiency, this gives you
automatic proficiency and it makes this
character significantly tankier. So, you
can run up into melee um in order to do
damage with impunity. In addition to
that, we want to stack as me as much
crit chance as possible so that we get
our mortal reminder critical fears as
often as possible. So, this character is
going to use the Deadshot um in its
ranged weapon slot in order to increase
your critical hit chance. And weapons
like the Knife of the Under Mountain
King. You're probably using that in the
early game for this character. And then
uh later, the uh Bloodthirst Dagger can
increase your critical hit chance. Also,
the Shade Slayer Cloak. Anything that
boosts your crit chance is really good
for this character. Alternatively to
those weapons, Rap City is a very good
option. You can still dual wield
alongside the knife of the under
mountain king and gain bonuses to your
attack rolls, damage, and save DC, which
is very powerful because a lot of our
effects key off of save DC. Or you can
also use Marahesh gear. Now, normally
the bonuses from Marahesh gear are uh
not that powerful for this type of
character or wouldn't be that powerful
for a character that doesn't rest uh
ever because its abilities come back on
a long rest. But Maraheshir gives us the
option to set Caresca's favor to bone
shaking thunder, which means that every
single spell attack that we fire also
inflicts two turns. It says one turn
here, but it's actually two turns of
reverberation. So, we get extra
reverberation with every attack.
Reverberation, when you stack it up,
deals thunder damage and knocks enemies
prone. So, that's yet more crowd
control. And enemies who are frightened
and prone skip their turn because they
can't move. uh in order to get back up.
To stack on top of that, we can add the
boots of stormy clamor and the gloves of
belligerent skies because we're going to
be doing radiant damage as well as
inflicting conditions constantly. So, we
we will be adding reverberation to every
single attack with these items. And then
the coruscation ring and the callus glow
ring in order to do radiant damage.
Callus glow ring's damage is radiant and
the coruscation ring inflicts radiating
orbs. So then we're stacking radiating
orbs. We're stacking reverberation.
We're hitting enemies with fear. So,
we're knocking them prone, giving them
huge stat penalties. And in addition,
we're doing constant great damage at
range. Or if we need to, we can cast
shadow blade and wade up into melee. The
ring of spiteful thunder is another good
alternative because we will be doing
thunder damage by just uh procking our
reverberation, especially if we have um
uh Marahesh gear. And then uh the
birthright hat gives you more charisma,
which is what this character needs most.
So that's going to be a great helmet
option. And of course, if you're walking
into melee with shadow blade, which does
psychic damage, then the resonant stone
will give you uh will give enemies
vulnerability to psychic damage. So it
will double all the damage that you're
doing. An enemy who's vulnerable and
receiving an automatic critical hit from
a shadow blade attack is of course dead
instantly. So, the fact that this is an
assassin character who gets to use
vulnerability and um automatic criticals
means you can just blow up any enemy
who's not immune to psychic damage
throughout all of act three with your
melee attacks. So, you get great crowd
control all of the early uh levels and
then at later levels, you become an
incredibly dangerous melee assassin.
I also almost forgot to mention one
other extremely powerful item for this
character, the spine shutter amulet. Of
course, we're dealing damage with range
spell attacks all the time with Eldrich
Blast. So, this is going to stack up six
reverberation with just one cast of
Eldrich Blast cuz it gives you uh stacks
per beam. So, the Spine Shutter Amulet,
of course, is amazing, especially when
combined with all of our other debuffing
tools. For our third character, we
already have incredible upfront damage
at the beginning of encounters to kill
specific dangerous enemies, and we've
got awesome repeatable crowd control to
lock everything down. What we're missing
at the moment is consistent damage
output so that we can keep dealing
damage turn after turn after turn.
There's a lot of characters we could
slot into this role, but the one that
just does this the best is the Eldrich
Nightthrower. This character is just the
most reliable character in Boulders's
Gate 3. It always gets the job done.
Every single turn. It deals amazing
damage output that almost never misses.
So, the Eldrich Knight Thrower just adds
that increased element of consistency
that makes this party even stronger. Of
course, to make this build, we're going
to start as a fighter. Um, and for our
fighting style, you actually have a
couple options here. You can take
defense, which is just the best uh
passive option. Just makes the character
even harder to kill, which of course you
already are being a fighter. Um, or you
can even take protection fighting style.
If you pair this with one of your ranged
characters in the backline, then when
that character gets attacked, protection
fighting style does let you defend them.
This character will al always be using a
shield. So, this is an option as well. I
think defense is a little stronger, but
protection is very fun. So, I like
recommending it on characters where it's
good. For our ability scores here, you
have two choices. Since this character
is strength-based in Balders's Gate 3,
you can always replace your strength
score by drinking an elixir of hill or
cloud giant strength. On a low or no
resting party, these elixirs last
basically forever, so you don't need to
stockpile a huge number of them. So, we
could take eight starting strength and
then replace that with an elixir. We
don't need to do that, though. So, I'm
going to recommend taking 17 starting
strength, 16 dexterity,
and 14 constitution, as well as 10
wisdom. Um, and then we will increase
these stats even further with our
abilities. You can though, if you want
to, uh, start with eight strength and
replace that with a strength elixir and
raise your other attributes, especially
your wisdom, which will increase your
mental saving throws a little bit more.
Uh but this uh starting with 17 strength
gives us some feet options that we
wouldn't otherwise have. The only
important skill for this character is
athletics, which of course Lazel starts
with. So that's the only one that you
need to pay attention to. Um and other
than that, we're just moving on to level
two.
Fighter level two, we get action surge,
which of course is a short rest ability.
Now, if your plan is to minimize long
resting, then you'll still use action
surge in important fights. If you're
never resting, then this ability won't
come up. Um, but either way, we're going
to move on to level three and we we get
to take our fighter subclass, which is
going to be Eldrich Knight. Now, you
could take champion fighter here. It has
passive abilities, whereas Eldrich
Knight do have uh Eldrich Knight spells
do have some cool downs. But, War Magic
is such a powerful ability for getting
extra attacks that the Eldrich Knight
Thrower, I think, is still the optimal
way to build this character, even if you
don't use any of its spell-casting. Of
course, we get two cantrips here. So,
one of these is always going to be
booming blade. This is required for this
character because that's how we're going
to easily trigger war magic where when
we cast a cantrip, we can then make a
bonus action attack. Um, which we'll get
at later levels of Eldrich Knight. So,
this character can make one melee attack
and then follow it up with a bunch of
throwing weapon attacks. Remember,
you're still a fighter, so your melee
attacks are still really good. We'll
also pick up Mage Hand. Uh, it's nice to
have this in a party. So, this character
or excuse me, we'll pick up minor
illusion. Um, every party should have
this. So, this is going to be the
character that's going to run it. Uh,
because uh then you can group up enemies
in order to hit them with like a grenade
explosion or something like that or lure
them apart for your assassins to pick
them off one by one. For our spells
here, we're going to take mage armor.
This is a great way to get a uh
long-term benefit. we can cast it on our
warlock who's going to be in a robe and
that will increase their armor class.
So, you don't need to use scrolls in
order to get that effect. For our uh
second spell, you don't really need
anything in particular. You could take
protection from good and evil and just
concentrate on this spell forever if you
want to. Um, but probably you are not
casting other spells. For our expanded
spell list here, we're going to take a
ritual spell of some kind. So, I
recommend find familiar. This is also a
ritual and this gives you a hugely
important tool. So, find familiar just a
very powerful spell overall that doesn't
cost a spell slot.
Character level four, we get um
additional spells. And these mostly
don't matter how outside of the ritual
spells, you're not going to be casting
your spells here, though you can take
shield for a panic button. And if you're
resting more frequently, then you will
want to adjust your spell selection a
little bit. Uh and then for our feet
selection here, we are going to take
Tavern Brawler. Of course, as a throwing
weapon character, Tavern Brawler doubles
our strength bonus to our throwing
weapons as well uh to our damage and
attacks, which is what makes this
character function and makes them so
incredibly reliable and deal such high
damage. We also get to add a point here,
so we can even out our strength bonus
going up to 18 strength, meaning that we
have a plus eight bonus from our
strength to hit and to damage on every
throwing weapon attack that we make.
Level five, we get extra attack, but
nothing else particularly important. No
decisions to make here. Extra attack,
though, obviously doubles our damage.
Character level six, as a fighter, we
get another feat. And the feat that
we're going to take here is, of course,
alert. As always, we want to go before
all of the enemies so that they get as
few turns as possible. So, this
character wants to win initiative. Since
we do such high damage, so important to
go first. And again, this party is
designed to um win combat before enemies
get to go. All of these characters get
super high initiative in order to
facilitate that.
Eldrich Knight level seven, we get the
feature that I have talked about
previously, war magic. After you've cast
a cantrip, you can make a weapon attack
using a bonus action. And this, of
course, is incredibly powerful because
we can use booming blade as our cantrip
in order to attack an enemy in melee.
And then with our remaining attacks, we
can throw our weapons. Remember that
this character can still fight in melee,
although we prefer to throw our weapon
uh because Tavern Brawler is just so
incredibly powerful. Um, you can still
just make melee attacks. We're still a
fighter with a big honking two-handed
weapon probably, so you can deal a lot
of damage. And booming blade damage of
course is very high as well. And it
triggers an extra attack every single
turn of combat. We also get to pick a
couple spells, but these don't matter.
Um, none of these are ritual spells, so
we're not going to be spending our spell
slots on them cuz we can't refresh
those.
Character level eight, we get an
expanded spell pick. And here we're
going to pick a spell that you almost
never see uh me suggest and that I rated
D tier, but for this particular party is
actually somewhat useful because we're
going to take C invisibility. The only
reason we're taking this is that it's
some benefit that we can get out of our
level two spell slot cuz it lasts until
long rest and doesn't take concentration
or anything. So you just have the sea
invisibility effect sort of passively
when you select it with your Eldrich
Knight. We're also going to get a feet,
which is much more important. And for
our feet here, we're going to take
athlete. This way, we can boost our
strength by one, and then we can boost
it by one again with heavy armor master.
And that will let us hit 20 strength
while also gaining increased jump
distance. This character becomes
incredibly mobile with the extra jump
distance from athlete. Um, so we will
now be able to go all over the
battlefield. And again, a theme of this
party is that we have tremendous
mobility. So, even though we have
somewhat fewer options in terms of spell
casting than other parties, we have lots
of options as to where and how we take
fights.
Fighter level 9, uh, we get indomitable,
which again makes us a little bit harder
to take down cuz we can roll our saving
throws, but there's no particular
decisions that we have to make. And then
at fighter level 10, uh, we get Eldrich
Strike, which again is fairly useful. We
will be hitting enemies with weapon
attacks in melee. Um, and that will give
them disadvantage on our next effect.
It's not just spells, but any effect
that we apply to them, they will have
disadvantage on. So, there's a lot of
effects that you can put out from items
or lithid powers that Eldrich Strike
will be pretty potent with. For our uh
cantrip selection here, of course, we
are again going to take true strike to
annoy people in the YouTube comments.
And then for our spell selection, again,
doesn't really matter what we pick here
because we're not going to be making use
of our spells. Though, obviously, if
you're building the Elder Knight,
normally shield is an incredibly
powerful spell that you'll have picked
up significantly earlier.
Fighter level 11, we get improved extra
attack. So now we are making four
attacks every single turn of combat cuz
we get our uh booming blade attack in
melee and then three ranged attacks with
thrown weapons. So improved extra attack
for even more damage output. And again
we get to choose a spell.
And then finally at fighter level 12 we
get our last feat. And the feat that
we're going to take is heavy armor
master. This lets us boost our strength.
So now we have 20 strength and it gives
us uh damage reduction. Combine that
with the damage reduction that we're
getting from um just the heavy armor
sets that we're likely to be wearing at
this point and we're going to be taking
very very little incoming damage
especially with the armor of persistence
which we'll have all incoming damage cuz
it gives you permanent blade ward. uh
then we will be taking almost no damage
cuz we'll be taking half damage and then
reducing that further by the flat damage
reduction that this character has which
makes us nearly immune to most incoming
enemy physical damage. Obviously
incredibly powerful for this character.
For items for this character, there's
actually not that many specific item
slots that we need for this character.
So, you can use this character as kind
of a catch-all for items that you think
are powerful, fun, or cool. Outside of
the very core items that we need, this
character can really play around with
your item build. So, if you find
something interesting that you've always
wanted to give a try, put it on this
character and see how it works. There
are some items, of course, that we
specifically are going to want for this
character. And firstly, obviously, we
need a weapon. This character needs to
do damage with a weapon with the throne
weapon property um in order to have the
maximum damage when we throw our weapon.
In the early game, the returning pike is
usually going to be the best one. Since
we're an Eldrich Knight, we can use the
lightning jabber, which isn't returning,
but as an Eldrich Knight, we can bind it
as our Eldrich Knight weapon and make it
a returning weapon, and it does a lot of
damage. especially if you're not playing
on honor mode. This weapon also has some
bugs where it does more damage than it
should in some circumstances. So, you
can get a tremendous amount of damage
out of the lightning jabber. In the late
game, you're going to be using either
the dwarven thrower or nai. The dwarven
thrower is slightly better for single
target damage. And if you use disguise
self, which you can learn as an Eldrich
Knight to disguise yourself as a dwarf,
then you can deal um you get the the
bonuses from the dwarven thrower. So,
it's a little better for single targets,
but Nyona is usually just going to be
the best in slot. It's also piercing
damage, which has synergy with an item
that our fourth character could use
extremely well as well. So, Nai is
usually going to be the go-to throwing
weapon in the endame. We also want a
shield. The best shield for this
character is usually going to be the
Sentinel shield. Just going first is so
powerful, but any shield can kind of fit
into this role. Um, any shield with good
defensive bonuses like the walking
fortress in the late game or the
safeguard shield in the early game are
also great options. Outside of that,
there are a few specific items that we
want. The gloves of uninh uninhibited
cushigo increase our throwing damage.
So, we want those cuz obviously the more
damage we're doing with our throne
weapons, the better. The ring of
flinging also deals an extra D4 bonus to
thrown damage. And the costic band will
increase our throne damage as well. um
and our weapon damage with our melee
attacks. Some alternatives to these
rings, the risky ring can make you even
less likely to ever miss um your
attacks. Combined with your tavern
brawler bonus, this character will have
a 1 in400 chance of missing basically
every attack cuz most attacks you make
you'll only miss on a natural one. With
advantage, you will only miss those if
you roll two natural ones in a row. The
ring of protection is also an okay
option for this character because um
just having even more defenses makes
this character already very hard to
kill, even harder to take down. For our
boots, the evasive shoes or a similar
defensive pair of boots go very well on
this character. And then for our armor,
we just want the best set of heavy armor
we can find. In the end game, this is
going to be the armor of persistence.
earlier on it will probably be the
adamantine armor um just to maximize
your uh chance to survive. The armor of
persistence of course synergizes
extremely well with heavy armor master
cuz it the damage reduction is additive.
So it's going to be five damage reduced
from every incoming damage. And because
we have blade ward passively from the
armor of persistence, bludgeoning,
piercing and slashing will deal half
damage. So that damage will be h haved
and then reduced by five which will
reduce most incoming damage basically to
zero. The helm of buldin another great
defensive item for this character. Um we
have medium armor proficiency, stun
immunity and immunity to critical hits
and constant healing. Bonuses to AC and
saves are really good. So just stack
your defensive items on this character.
Once you have Nyola, the ring of
flinging and the gloves of uninhibited
cushigo, you'll you will have so much
damage output. you can just put
defensive and utility items on this
character and be extremely happy. Also
important, you should carry backup
weapons with the throne weapon property.
Uh there are times where you want a
different damage type or your weapon is
disposable. So things like daggers or
light hammers are very useful. And this
character should also carry bottles of
water and healing potions. We get a lot
of attacks every turn. So throwing these
at your allies or when you need a bottle
of water for uh to create an ice surface
or for utility. um it can be very
helpful to have these stacked on this
character. You also can benefit a lot
from an elixir of bloodlust for extra uh
attacks or the elixir of cloud giant
strength which maximizes your tavern
brawler damage. But outside of the very
core items, your weapon and the uh items
that boost your throwing damage, you can
really feel free to have fun with this
character's itemization. For our fourth
character, we want to add some utility
to the party. we already have amazing
damage output and uh excellent crowd
control that's quite repeatable. So,
this character is designed to handle out
of combat situations by giving us a
tremendous access to skills, especially
lockpicking and trap disarming skills
that we badly need, and also to be the
glue that holds the party together by
putting out fires when you're actually
fighting, taking out specific enemies,
using our crowd control abilities on
dangerous enemies that survive our
initial burst, and locking down enemy
movement with a lot of crowd control and
tremendous mobility. So, this character
can be anywhere and do anything in order
to keep the rest of the party
functioning smoothly. It's going to be a
somewhat unusual build to see an
optimized honor mode parties, but it
fits extremely well in this party. We're
playing a monocclass squashbuckler
rogue, but some of the choices we're
going to be making are going to be a
little bit different. Now, of course,
we're starting with our rogue level
here, and for our ability score
selection, we're going to take 17
starting dexterity, 14 constitution. Uh,
we don't need any points in intelligence
and we'll take 10 wisdom and 16
charisma. Some swashbuckler abilities
key off of charisma, so we want that as
high as possible. For our skill
proficiencies here, um, we're going to
take slight of hand expertise and
stealth expertise. And of course, we
also want acrobatics so that we're a
little harder to shove around. As a
dexterity based character that's um
operating mostly in melee, this
character can sometimes be pushed by
enemies. So, acrobatics makes that
easier to avoid. We'll also take
persuasion proficiency because we will
want high persuasion for our level 9
ability that keys off of persuasion. For
our last ability here, there's nothing
in particular that we need, but um
taking investigation can be useful.
There are some out of combat
investigation checks that you're going
to roll. So this character having
proficiency in that can make your whole
party slightly better at some of the out
of combat things that you're asked to
do. Also worth noting for this character
that if you are playing this as a custom
character or if you're playing a star on
an origin run then taking a high elf or
high half- elf, you can take booming
blade as your high elf cantrip and
that's very powerful for this character
as well. You can only change this
cantrip if you're playing a star as your
main character. Unfortunately, it can't
be respected during the game. Um, but uh
if you are doing that or if you're
playing a custom high elf or high half
elf, booming blade is obviously amazing.
Character level two, no choices to make,
but of course, we get the extremely
powerful cunning actions that our whole
party basically has access to except the
Eldrich Knight, which makes us
incredibly mobile. Character level
three, we get to take our subclass. And
the subclass that we're picking is
swashbuckler. Now, swashbuckler gives us
two things right away. Firstly, we get
uh if you melee attack a target, they
can't make opportunity attacks against
us. So, that makes this character very
safe to run around attacking enemies and
then running away to avoid reprisal. And
then we also get a plus two bonus to
initiative. This is equal to our
proficiency bonus as long as we keep
taking rogue levels. So, in the end
game, this is going to be a plus4 bonus.
Um, which is and basically means we
don't have to take alert and can take
even more cool feats on this character.
And we don't need advantage to trigger
sneak attack. So, the fact that we don't
have another mainline melee character
doesn't matter for this character. We're
always going to be able to sneak attack.
Level four, we get our bonus actions.
And this allows us to use a bonus action
to basically get a second attack. This
is part of why a monoclass swashbuckler
is pretty useful. You still do great
damage cuz dirty trick flick of the
wrist not only disarms enemies,
extremely powerful. It also effectively
acts as getting extra attack even uh a
level early. It does consume your bonus
action which is important for rogues,
but it's still a very powerful tool. We
also get vicious mockery. not going to
be used that often, but if you need a
ranged option, then sometimes this can
be okay. And sand toss, which is very
powerful because blinding enemies for
two turns, is really good crowd control.
The save DC for slime uh sand toss is
also based off your dexterity, not your
charisma for some reason. So, it's very
likely to succeed cuz we're going to
have very high dexterity. We also get a
feet. And for our feet, we're going to
take a feet that doesn't show up that
often, moderately armored. This lets us
boost our dexterity up and it also is
going to let us use a shield. For most
rogues, you would want a weapon in your
offh hand. But for a swashbuckler rogue,
both of your attacks uh in the turn are
going to be made with your main hand
weapon because your second bonus action
attack is going to be dirty tricks. So,
you don't need an offhand weapon. And
that way, we can use a shield. You can
also use medium armor, which will let us
use the yuanti scale male for parts of
act two, which is going to be the best
armor available to this character at
that point, giving you higher initiative
and armor class. So, really nice to have
this feat early, and it just lets us
even out our dexterity.
Level five, no decisions to make, but
uncanny dodge is very powerful for this
character. We're going to get an extra
reaction late game. So, this character
will actually be very good at defending
itself with the various ways that we'll
have to stop enemies from dealing
damage. They don't get opportunity
attacks. We can blind or disarm them.
And if they do hit us, we can have the
incoming damage with a reaction.
Then at level six, we get additional
skills. So, we can learn um extra skill
proficiencies here or extra skill
expertise here. Uh, so we're going to
take um expertise in persuasion that we
want in order to have really high
persuasion for the end game because we
get an ability that keys off of it. We
can also take expertise in one of these
other skills. Acrobatics just makes you
harder to push around. So that's what
I'm going to recommend taking there.
Level seven rogue, we get evasion. So
again, we get just more passive
defensive bonuses that don't need a cool
down. So, uh, we're going to take no
damage for most dexterity targeting
damaging spells, which is most of them.
Uh, since our dexterity bonus is very
high and we have proficiency in the
save. Level eight, we get another feat.
And the feat that we're going to take
here is just to increase our damage
output, we're going to take Savage
Attacker. Savage Attacker is really nice
for this character because um, we're
just rolling a lot of dice. It's a melee
damage buff that increases our damage
output significantly. So, uh, Savage
Attacker just boosts our damage output
enormously at this point in the game.
A character level 9, we get Pache. And
Pache, while it takes an action, so
you're not going to use it all the time,
is actually pretty cool for this
character and gives us yet another layer
of possible crowd control. There's a
couple reasons that this is actually
better than it looks despite being uh
just disadvantage for an action.
Firstly, it lasts for 10 turns and
that's a really long um that's a a
really long set of crowd control. So,
at character level 9, we get panache.
And while this ability is not the
strongest in the game, it actually
performs a fairly useful function for
this character. It does take an action,
so you're going to be judicious with
when you actually use it. Um, but this
ability lasts for 10 turns and gives
enemies disadvantage on all their
attacks against your allies. As long as
your allies don't harm them and break
the charm effect. Uh, it's not mentioned
anywhere in the tool tip, but if someone
else hits the panached character,
they'll lose the disadvantage. So, you
have to be a little bit careful with how
you employ this ability. But giving an
enemy that you don't want to target
right away disadvantage on all their
attacks for 10 turns is and inability to
make opportunity attacks is really
powerful. It can let you just ignore an
enemy. Remember also that you can spend
your action on this and then still use
your bonus action on um a dirty trick.
So you can disarm one enemy, give
another disadvantage and stack up more
crowd control. So this is very helpful
for those fights.
It also, of course, is always going to
work because the way that it works is
it's a persuasion check um contested
with an insight check and your
persuasion is super high. Enemies
typically have fairly low insight
checks. They don't usually have bonuses
to that. So, you're always going to get
the success on this uh panache attack.
Rogue level 10, we get another feat. And
there's a bunch of different options
here that can all be pretty useful. One
option is to take an ability score
improvement, just boost our dexterity up
to 20. If you're finding that this
character isn't hitting their attacks as
much, that's definitely a great option.
However, what I'm going to recommend
here is that we take instead Sentinel.
Sentinel is really nice for a rogue
because it lets you effectively cheat
your sneak attack to half a turn early.
The way that sneak attack works is it's
a per round cool down. Um, but it
refreshes at the end of your turn. So,
if you make an attack and get sneak
attack, you then end your turn and you
get sneak attack back. So, if you make
an opportunity attack on the enemy's
turn, you can sneak attack them again.
Since we're a swashbuckler, we can
always sneak attack on all of our
attacks. So, Sentinel is going to let us
uh use our sneak attack half a turn
early. We then won't have sneak attack
for the second round of combat, but
that's okay. Two sneak attacks of savage
attacker should kill most enemies. It
also prevents enemies from moving, and
that's very powerful for this um party,
of course, because we need more crowd
control. We just want ways to stop
enemies from doing stuff. This character
dancing around the backlines, being
extremely annoying and hard to hit,
dealing great damage, and preventing
enemies from moving just shuts down a
lot of what enemies are trying to do.
This is also the point in the game where
our other characters, our warlock is
probably moving into melee more. So
getting the reaction uh for when an
enemy attacks an ally can be helpful as
well.
Rogue level 11, of course, we get
reliable talent, which makes this
character even more amazing at passing
all the skills. It makes panache better
as well, cuz you're still making the uh
persuasion check. And then you will also
just never fail at picking a lock.
So, this character becomes even better
at out of combat utility.
Finally, at character level 12, we get
an additional feat, and we're going to
take an ability score improvement to max
out our dexterity. Obviously, we want
this as high as possible to make our
character as strong as possible. Another
thing that's worth mentioning at this
point is there's a couple other feats
that we could take on this character
depending on our gear selection. If
you're playing a race that has glaive
proficiency, you can use the dancing
breeze and you can take pole arm master.
At that point, you would want to
respspec out of moderately armored and
take polearm instead in order to make
use of the dancing breeze. Another
option for this character, because we're
probably going to be in light armor and
we're likely going to be using the
dualist prerogative at this point in the
game, which means we won't be using a
shield and we won't be in medium armor,
is to respspec out of moderately
armored, use um any stat item to
increase our dexterity, like the mirror
or Ethel's hair. And instead of that,
take uh any number of other cool feats,
but one that I think is particularly fun
for this character is defensive duelist.
you're always going to be using a
finesse weapon and we're going to have
two reactions if we're using the dualist
prerogative. So, this basically gives us
shield every turn for free without
spending a spell slot. Um, this was
mentioned in a comment on my original
swashbuckler video. I'm sorry I don't
remember who said it, but this is
actually a really cool idea and I think
it's actually definitely worth pursuing.
All right, that's the last character,
but let's talk about their items. For
items for this character, we're looking
to double down on the things that we're
good at. Make the character harder to
kill because this character can be a
little bit squishy and likes to play
aggressively, being up in melee with
enemies and dancing around in their
backline. So, making sure that we have
the defenses to support that play style
is important. And of course, we want to
increase our damage output and just our
overall utility to the party. Firstly,
of course, we need a finesse weapon
because swashbuckler rogues abilities
require that you have a weapon with the
finesse weapon property. In the early
game, this can be anything, but it's
probably going to be usually the
shortsword of first blood. This is a
very solid finesse weapon that does a
bunch of extra damage to enemies who
have all of their HP, which is really
nice in the early game. This can let you
burst down a high health enemy much more
quickly. Later on, we might swap that
for something like the Crimson Mischief
if you want to keep using a shield, but
I recommend in the late game going for
the dualist's prerogative. This uh gives
you additional crit chance and an
additional reaction, which works
extremely well with Sentinel. It also
works with defensive duelist if you took
that as a feat later on. And it also
works with Rogu's um uncanny dodge
ability. So you can reduce incoming
damage massively by giving you extra
reactions. Uh it also, you know, just
has an extra bonus action attack
naturally. So even against enemies who
can't uh who don't have weapons, so you
can't use your disarm against them, you
can still do a second mainhand attack
with the duelist prerogative uh because
of the dueler's enthusiasm action, which
just lets you make an extra mainand
attack. So, this is going to be our best
in slot endame weapon, unless you are a
character who is playing a race that has
glaive proficiency, in which case you
can use the dancing breeze, which gives
you a reach weapon. You can combine this
with polarm master and uh sentinel um in
order to lock enemies down in a much
larger area, prevent their movement, and
just give you a huge amount of control
over the battlefield. In addition to
these finesse weapons, of course, we
want some other items. So, one of the
other items I really like on this
character is the helmet of grit. Our
bonus actions are incredibly valuable.
So, if you're happy playing at 50% HP,
and remember, this character has a lot
of tools to protect itself. An extra
bonus action is incredibly strong, so it
makes you have just wildly more options
and a lot more power overall. Um, we're
going to be using the medium armors with
uncapped dexterity in the early game as
well. Things like the yuanti scale mail.
Obviously, you'll use whatever the
highest AC light armor you have up to
this point uh until you get this item,
but as soon as you hit act two and get
the yuanti scale mail, this is going to
be the best one for this character cuz
the initiative bonus is also really
useful during act two. In the end game,
you can swap to a light armor. A
defensive light armor like the elegant
studded leather gives you even more
initiative and decent AC. Or of course
if you took the story events that get it
for you, the ballist armor is a
tremendous power up not only for this
character but for your entire party. You
have an archer and a nyoma thrower in
the party. So doubling the damage output
of those characters by giving enemies
vulnerability to piercing damage as well
as of course this character with the
duelist prerogative also doing piercing
is absurdly strong. So, the ballis armor
is just broken and will be incredibly
powerful in the end game for this
character as well. Uh, while you in the
early game, uh, you will up until you
get the duelist prerogative, you're
going to want to use a shield. The
safeguard shield is a nice one for this
character. Saving throws and armor class
are really good. So, just giving
yourself a few more u a little bit more
survivability goes a long way for this
character. And then we're going to stack
on other survivability items as well.
Items like the cloak of protection or
displacement can keep the character
alive much more easily. The ring of
protection if you're not using it on
your Eldrich Knight is good here. Or you
can go for more aggressive rings like
the shadowcloaked ring. Um enemies who
are heavily obscured or enemies who are
obscured are often what you're going to
be fighting with this character because
you're going to be in the backline away
from your party's lights. Uh, your
warlock needs enemies lit for the callus
glow ring, but the shadowcloaked ring uh
on this character can work against any
obscured enemy in the backline.
Crusher's ring is also really nice. We
really want lots of mobility on this
character. So, utility items like this
go a long way. Also important for this
character and what I recommend keeping
until the end game is the disintegrating
night walkers or another set of boots
that makes you immune to being prone or
falling over on ice. with our archer uh
using the snow burst ring combo, there's
going to be a lot of ice on the
battlefield and making this character
who's our main melee character immune to
it means we can move through that much
more freely. So, while the misty step
isn't that useful on the night walkers,
unless you are resting more frequently,
the inability to bewangled and snared
and can't slip on ice is super helpful.
So, you really want immunity to
slipping. This character also wants to
carry a pair of hand crossbows in the
ranged weapon slot. Just gives you a lot
of options for ranged damage. You can
use sneak attack at range and just gives
you a ton of uh optionality. If you
can't get into melee, you can continue
to do consistent damage. And finally,
for our amulet, I really like the amulet
of greater health on this character. Um,
though there's a lot of other options as
well, but because this character is
going to be in melee and relatively
squishy, the extra hit points go a long
way. Especially if you're using the
helmet of grit, then that will let your
half value uh you know, your hit points,
which are half of your normal total,
still be a reasonably survivable total
combined with your other options to stay
alive. So, this character gives a
tremendous amount of utility and lets
you just move around the battlefield
doing more or less whatever you want.
All right, my friends. I hope that
you've enjoyed this look at the no rest
party, and I hope you enjoy tirelessly
stomping your way through honor mode,
never stopping to rest or even slowing
down. Uh, this party is really fun to
play and very straightforward because
every character just does what it does
extremely well all the time. So you
never have to worry about juggling your
resources or being in worse shape for a
certain fight or taking a fight while
you are close to resting and maybe that
fight then goes worse because none of
those things come up for this party. So
it can be fun for a challenge mode. It
can also just be a very powerful tool to
make sure that you always are at full
capacity even in a run where you're
resting all the time. As always, of
course, if you've enjoyed the video,
feel free to leave a comment and hit
like. Helps me out a ton with the
algorithm. So, I appreciate you taking
the time to do that. And of course, you
can subscribe to my channel for more
Boulders Gate 3 build guides and other
strategy game analysis. Cheers, my
friends. I'll catch you next
