Before I begin, I do want to take a
quick moment to say thank you so much to
Tarantula for the $5 donation, Portia
Bill for the $10, JD Long Drive for the
$10, and Ian Reed and Lifeblood for
becoming channel members. Thank you so
much, my friends. I really appreciate
the support. It really means a lot to
me. All right, let's rock and roll.
Hello, my friends, and welcome back to
another Boulders Gate 3 full party
building guide for Honor Mode. Hope
you're all doing well. Today, we're
getting the band back together with the
ultimate allbard party to rock and roll
our way through honor mode. Uh, this is
one of the most frequent full party
builds that I get asked to do. And not
only is it really fun and flavorful,
it's also extremely powerful with great
damage, great survivability, unsurpassed
control thanks to having four control
casters, and of course, basically
perfect out of combat skills. We all
know that bards can be built to do
anything, but with this party, they can
do everything.
As always, for my full party builds,
we'll be using four builds that are both
powerful in their own right and also
extremely synergistic, becoming an even
more powerful hole when they're put
together. This is intended to be used in
actual play. So, of course, we cover all
the skills that you need, easy with all
bards, fill all the roles that you need,
both in and out of combat, and have no
item conflicts between the builds, and
work right from level one all the way
through to level 12. We also don't need
to take any specific story choices to
use this party. And you can use it with
any companion. So, no matter how you
want to play your run, you can use this
party to do it. Though, of course, to
fully maximize an allbarb party, we're
going to have one character be each of
the four bard subasses. My rule when I
was starting to put together this party
was I wanted each character to have at
least six levels in the bard subclass of
their choice. But actually, as I built
the characters, we ended up with at
least 10 levels for each character in
the bard subclass of their choice. So,
this is an extremely bic party. We're
going to start with our main damage
dealer and kind of the obvious
inclusion, the swordsbard archer. Not
only is this one of the most powerful
characters in the game, it also plays
extremely well with this party because
it outputs a ton of damage, which is
something that an allbarbred party can
otherwise struggle with, and it does so
at any range, and can provide a ton of
additional control to support the extra
control that you're getting from having
a bunch of uh extremely powerful
spellcasters in the party. So, we're
leading off with an extremely strong
build, the Swordbard Archer. For this
character, we're going to start, of
course, by taking a level of bard. We
want to get to extra attack and our
swordbard abilities as quickly as
possible. So, we're going to start with
bard right away for the swordbard archer
build. For our cantrip selection, we're
going to take vicious mockery. Now, I'm
actually going to take vicious mockery
on every character cuz of course, if
you're playing a fourbard party, you
really want to be able to mock enemies
to death. I mean, what are you doing if
you can't have four characters just mock
an enemy until they fall over dead from
embarrassment? But this character
actually specifically wants vicious
mockery because later on we'll be able
to cast enchantment spells as a bonus
action. And vicious mockery can add some
extra damage to our already high damage
turns. The second spell for this
character, we're just going to take mage
hand. Um, this is a good character to
cast mage hand with because you don't
need a specific utility cantrip for the
swordbard archer. Uh, a different
specific utility cantrip for the
swordbard archer. So, this can be your
mage hand user. Splitting up our spells
across the four builds is going to be
one of the really interesting things
about building this uh setup. For our
spell selection for this character,
we're going to take healing word and
dissonant whispers. And these spells are
universally useful enough that we're
going to want them on all four of our
characters. Having four copies of
dissonant whispers means that our early
game is extremely easy cuz a lot of the
most dangerous enemies in the early game
are melee. Dissonant whispers just wipes
those enemies out, especially when you
can cast it in multiples. So that's part
of what makes this build so strong in
the early game. Uh in addition, of
course, we want healing word cuz we can
pop our allies back to full health. And
then this character in particular is
going to take Tasha's hideous laughter,
another enchantment spell and also a
very strong control spell. And then
we're going to take Thunderwave. As an
archery build with relatively low hit
points, we will often want to be far
away from enemies. So, this character
wants Thunderwave in order to protect
itself. For our ability score selection,
oh, I've already actually done it here.
We're going to take uh 16 dexterity, 14
constitution, 12 wisdom, and 16
charisma. This character may later on
want to use the gloves of dexterity.
I'll talk about a couple different
options for how you build the attribute
split for this character later on. Um,
but the gloves of dexterity are going to
be one potential option, but you always,
of course, want to start with 16
dexterity and 16 charisma so that your
ranged attacks and your uh spells both
have the maximum chance of success. For
skill selection for this party, we
actually have a lot of interesting
decisions to make. Of course, as bards,
we can distribute our skills literally
to anything. So deciding which character
handles what skill is actually a pretty
interesting uh set part of this party's
setup. For this character, it's going to
be our highest dexterity character. As
an archer, we're going to be raising our
dexterity. So, this will be our slight
of hand and stealth character. So, we're
always going to take those. I also like
to have athletics on this character.
It's very likely that we're going to be
using a strength item, either a strength
elixir or the club of hill giant
strength for at least most of the early
game and possibly all game. Again, more
on this in the item section. Um, so when
you need to roll an athletics check,
this character will be the one to do it.
Uh, for our last skill selection here,
perception is pretty useful for this
character with stealth and slight of
hand as well because you can be the the
trapfinder. So, being able to see those
yourself can be pretty nice. Or you can
put it into performance in order to um
for flavor reasons. Either way is
totally fine.
Also, of course, we have to pick an
instrument for this character cuz you
can't be a band if you don't play the
right instruments. I'm going to say that
this is going to be our liar player
because this is a nice quiet instrument.
It's always the quiet ones you have to
watch out for. They'll get you
at level two. This character is taking
it second level of bard. And like all
level two bards, it gets song of rest.
One of the great things about this party
is that we get seven uses every day of
our short rest abilities, including all
of our inspiration features when we get
um font of inspiration at bard level 5.
So, we can keep going for almost an
indefinite length of time continuously
using all of our powerful abilities
thanks to every character having song of
rest. We also get another spell and the
spell that we're going to take is a
slightly odd one for this character.
We're going to pick up charm person.
Now, normally this is a very weak spell
overall, but there are some weird corner
cases for this party because we have a
glamourbard with Mantle of Majesty, and
enemies who are charmed automatically
fail the saving throw against Mantle of
Majesty. Being able to charm with this
character to make that character's
control uh have no save can come up in
some weird corner cases. It won't be
that frequent, but it um is a more
useful uh spell for this character than
it is for just about anyone else. And
this character will mostly be using
archery attacks rather than casting
spells. So, term person actually comes
up here, which is kind of neat.
At character level three, we get to
choose our bard subass, which of course
for this character is the college of
swords bard. Uh, swordsbard effectively
does double damage, especially in this
party build because we can use slashing
flourish with our bows in order to fire
two attacks for the price of one as long
as we have an inspiration die. This uh
character will always have inspiration
dice, at least once we hit level five
because we have Song of Rest on every
party member. So, as soon as we can
refresh our inspiration dice on a short
rest, we can use this on every single
attack and effectively double our damage
output without spending any resources.
So, this character will just be
obliterating encounters. Even before we
hit level five, it still is a huge boost
to our damage output. We also get a
level two spell and that's going to be
hold person. This character is going to
be our band of the mystic scoundrel user
if we are using that item. And so taking
enchantment spells and control-based
enchantment spells is very important.
And then also hold the person is
especially good for this character
because we're making weapon attacks and
you get automatic critical hits. So it
can let you lock down an enemy and then
obliterate them with double automatic
critical hits as long as you fire your
bow from within 10 ft. We also get a
fighting style here and we're going to
take two weapon fighting. Two weapon
fighting is good because there are parts
of the game where you're going to be
using a pair of hand crossbows early on
before you get um the Titan string bow
and the uh or the Deadshot later. And
there may be points in the game where
you prefer a pair of hand crossbows for
specific encounters and dueling doesn't
do anything for us. So two weapon
fighting is effectively free. Uh, we
also get expertise in two skills, which
for this character are going to be
slight of hand and stealth, making us um
an ideal lockpicking character and able
to stay in stealth and kill enemies
without them even noticing that we're
there, especially once we get access to
greater invisibility later on. Finally,
we can uh replace a spell. And although
we've talked about how charm person will
be useful for this character just to
keep our character as strong as possible
at low levels, we are going to swap it
out for cloud of daggers. Though we'll
pick up charm person later on, but cloud
of daggers is too good, especially
because we can have four characters with
it and can stack lots of cloud of
daggers and just wipe out whole
encounters just by casting that with no
die rolls required.
Character level four, we get to pick up
another cantrip. And the cantrip that
we're going to pick here for this
character is light. It's just another
useful utility cantrip. We're always
going to want some party member to have
that. And then for our spell selection,
we're going to go back and grab charm
person. Uh what spell we pick here
mostly doesn't matter because our other
spells are going to be more important.
So let's pick this up for the very minor
use cases that it has. And then we're
going to also pick up another feat. And
the feat that we're going to take is
going to be sharpshooter. Of course,
this is an archery build. Sharpshooter
increases our damage massively. And so
even though this will make our chance to
hit a little low in the a little bit
lower, um we will have lots and lots of
ways to offset that because we have
inspiration from our allies. Um and
we're [clears throat] going to have
bless and everything available. So this
character will still be hitting its
attacks and this will increase our
damage enormously.
At bard level five, we get third level
spells and we also of course get font of
inspiration, which makes our bic
inspiration come back on a short rest.
So now we can use our swordbard
abilities all the time. Uh for our spell
at this level, we're going to take
hypnotic pattern. This character will
usually want control spells. We don't
need spammable combat spells like glyph
of warding, but we can often start a
fight by casting something like hypnotic
pattern and then making our ranged
attacks. And then also later on, this is
of course an illusion spell for the band
of the mystic scoundrel.
Level six, we get extra attack because
we are a swords bard. So again, doubling
or rather quadrupling our damage output
from a single attack because each of
those attacks can also be a slashing
flourish. Uh and we get an additional
thirdle spell. In this case, we're going
to take fear, another bonus action
castable spell for the band of the
mystic scoundrel.
At character level seven, we want to
increase our damage even further. And we
have extra attack from bard. So now it's
time to multiclass. We're going to take
a level of fighter here, which gets us a
fighting style. And that of course gives
us archery fighting style. This will
help offset the attack penalty from
sharpshooter while also um giving us
longbowow proficiency, which lets us
swap off the gloves of archery if we've
been using those for longbowow
proficiency up to this point. uh and
increasing our damage output
commenurately. At level eight, we're
going to take a second level of fighter
and that gives us action surge. So now
this character can make eight attacks in
the opening round of combat essentially
because we get two turns with extra
attack and each of those can be uh a
slashing flourish, which means that we
can fire an absurd amount of attacks
downing enemies before they ever get to
act.
Having gotten action surge, we're going
back to bard. We want more inspiration
dice and of course we want to get higher
level spells and eventually magical
secrets. Um, so we're going to go ahead
and take a spell selection here. And for
our level four spell, we're going to
pick up confusion. This is another spell
that's usable with the band of the
mystic scoundrel and is very useful for
this character to have. We'll have a
different character cast greater
invisibility. If we want this character
to be invisible, you would rather have
somebody else concentrating on that. So,
no need to take it for the sword bard
themselves.
Character level 10, we're taking our
eighth level of bard, and we get an
additional spell. Here, we're going to
go back for invisibility. This is both a
useful utility spell, although we do
have it elsewhere in the party already,
but if uh once again, you're using the
band of the mystic scoundrel, the
ability to cast this as a bonus action
can be invaluable as a defensive tool.
We also get an additional feat. And here
is where you have to actually make a
decision. If you are using the gloves of
dexterity, then you can go ahead and
pick up alert. Um, the gloves of
dexterity will let you replace your
dexterity it with uh the ability to have
alert. If you would prefer not to use
the gloves of dexterity on this
character and instead invest initiative
gear for this character, you can take an
ability improvement and boost your
dexterity. I think that the best way to
build this character usually is going to
be to respspec around this point. use
the gloves of dexterity to replace
having natural dexterity. Um, and that
will also allow you to raise your
constitution higher and your wisdom
higher. And then pick up alert so that
you're still always going first.
At character level 11, we get our ninth
level of bard, which lets us, of course,
pick an extra spell. And the spell that
we're going to pick here is hold
monster. It's big hold person, which is
extremely useful for this character.
Again, you're one of the best characters
at casting these hold spells in the
entire game. So, the ability to cast
both of them is very important.
And then finally, at bard level 12 or
character level 12, bard level 10, we
get to add a bunch more things to our
character, including magical secrets.
So, firstly, we get to add uh two
expertise into skills. We're just going
to put it into athletics and perception
or whatever skills you've decided to
boost for this character. We already
have the really important one, slight of
hand and stealth already with expertise.
We also get an additional cantrip. So,
we're going to take true strike to annoy
people in the YouTube comments. Then, we
get an extra spell selection here. Um,
at this point, you should have a pretty
good sense of the gaps in your party,
but you can go back and grab any
illusion or enchantment spell. Even
greater invisibility can be pretty
useful for this character. Uh, or you
can just pick up something that you feel
like you might want as a utility spell
available. Something like silence can be
useful to have on multiple characters in
the late game. More importantly though,
we get two magical secrets. And this is
where we get a ton of our additional
power level. Um because this character
can take command, another enchantment
spell that we can bonus action cast. If
you aren't using the band of the mystic
scoundrel on this character, then you
don't need to take command. But if you
are using that combo, then this is by
far the best spell that you can pick up
cuz it will let you bonus action lock
down entire encounters. And then for our
second spell, we're going to take
banishing smite. Banishing smite just
gives us the option to deal a bunch of
additional damage when we really need
to. Um, and so this character can have
even more burst damage available with
its weapon attacks using this spell. For
items for this character, let's start
with our weapon. Of course, this is an
archer build, so we're going to start
the early game with the Titan string
bow, plus either using an elixir of hill
giant strength every day or carrying the
club of hill giant strength as our melee
weapon. If you use an elixir of hill
giant strength, then you can't use a
blood lust elixir if you're using the
club of hill giant strength. You can use
a blood lust elixir, though your damage
bonus is very slightly lower. If you're
finding that you're having trouble
hitting your attacks in the late game,
you can also swap to the deadshot, which
gives you extra critical hits and more
accuracy. I tend to prefer this in the
late game because uh hitting your
attacks is really important and you do
plenty of damage, but both of these
setups will be really strong on into the
end game. If you're playing a character
that doesn't have longbowow proficiency,
you can use the gloves of archery in
order to get longbowow proficiency. And
then when you multiclass into fighter,
that'll give you long bow proficiency.
And then you can swap to the gloves of
dexterity. At that point, you'll want to
respspec your character to remove all
these points from dexterity to increase
your constitution and wisdom. Um you'll
just go up to 16 con and 14 wisdom. The
uh an alternative setup to that is to
raise your dexterity. That means
skipping out on alert and then you can
take the hell dust gloves instead as
your uh glove setup. But the gloves of
dexterity setup is typically going to be
stronger because it lets you have higher
initiative and higher hit bonus and
everything alongside that. For our armor
for this character, the early game is
going to be the graceful cloth. We want
high dexterity to hit our attacks,
especially once we first get
sharpshooter. And then once we have
respect to use the gloves of dexterity,
we're going to swap to um any light
armor up until the point where we get
the medium armors that have uh full AC
bonus. So the armor of agility or this
character will also wear the ballist
armor. You could put it on a melee
character for this party, but there are
better armors for those characters. So
just moving this character to 7 ft away
from the enemies if you are using the
ballist armor in this run which is not
necessary but it will increase your
damage massively if you do that early
game for your helmet. The marksmanship
hat gives you extra bonuses to hit. Very
important of course. And then late game
it is almost impossible to beat the
power level of the helmet of arcane
acuity. This character makes tons of
weapon attacks and each slashing
flourish double counts for the helmet of
arcane acuity. So, you'll stack up save
DCs extremely high and can then use your
bonus action to cast your illusion or
enchantment spells. And all of those are
control spells. That's why we skewed our
um skewed our spell list so heavily
towards those spells. As a bonus action,
this is an extremely well-known and one
of the most powerful combos in the
entire game. For our melee weapons for
this character, the knife of the under
mountain king gives us additional
critical hit chance. And rap city in the
late game just increases our chance to
hit and our spell save DCs even further.
So enemies simply will not be able to
avoid failing saves against our spells
as well as also increasing our damage.
Another combination that we can use on
this character is the snow burst ring
combined with the drakethroat glaive to
use draconic elemental weapon to make
our bow fire frost arrows. That way,
every time we hit with a a weapon
attack, it will also leave an ice
surface on the ground. And so that will
add even more crowd control to this
character. Alternatives to that second
ring are the strange conduit ring just
for more damage or the risky ring again
if you're having trouble landing your
attacks. The surgeon subjugation amulet
rounds things out by giving you yet
another way to paralyze an enemy. Um and
then any defensive cloak, but I like the
cloak of displacement for this
character. You really don't want this
character to get attacked because they
are relatively squishy. Um, so having
high AC in the cloak of displacement can
prevent that from happening by giving
enemies disadvantage on attack rules
against you. Altogether, this
character's item set is just designed to
increase your chance to hit with your
bow attacks and increase your damage
when you do. Um, so it's a very simple
build setup. You just build normal
archery items in order to deal the most
damage possible. So now we have our main
ranged damage. Let's pick up some melee
damage and frontlining capabilities.
Also, just to remind you, I will be
linking the full build guides to each of
these builds in the description below.
So, if you want more detail on any of
the builds, definitely go check those
out. For this character, we're going to
be building our valor bard. And we
actually won't be starting with bard for
this character, but instead we'll be
starting with a level of warlock. This
is because we want to tie our weapon
attacks to our charisma, and hexlade
warlock will allow us to do that. With
our warlock level, we can go ahead and
pick up Eldrich Blast, still an
extremely useful ranged attack to have
access to, and Booming Blade. Booming
Blade massively increases our melee
damage essentially for free. So getting
that right from the beginning of the
game can be extremely helpful. We're
then going to pick up Hexlade Warlock,
which lets us use Hexlad's curse for
additional damage and bind hex weapon to
allow our weapon attacks to use our
charisma instead of our strength or
dexterity. So, we only have to care
about maxing out one stat for our hex
blade spells. And remember, uh although
we only are going to have one warlock
spell slot cuz we're going to stay as a
level one warlock for a really long
time. Um remember that this character is
part of a bard party. So, we can refresh
these spells an enormous number of times
per day with all of our Song of Rests.
So, we can be pretty spenthrifty with
these spells. For our hex blade spells,
we're going to pick up shield, which
gives us a lot more defensive
capability. This character will have
relatively low AC for a and HP for a
frontlining melee character because, of
course, we're still a bard. But having
the shield spell available to a bard, as
well as Hexlad's medium armor
proficiency and all of our ways to
reduce or mitigate incoming damage makes
this character surprisingly tanky. And
then we also are increasing its hit
points with our glamourbard. So, uh,
having shields gives us a lot of extra
resilience. We'll also add hex to allow
us to do extra damage. For our ability
score selection for this character, this
is where we'll spend Ethel's hair if you
are doing that in this playthrough. So,
there are actually two different
possible attribute splits that you can
start with for this character. Uh either
you can start with 16 starting
dexterity, 14 constitution, 17 charisma,
and 10 wisdom if you intend to use
Ethel's hair on this character, or you
can start with 16 charisma and 12 wisdom
in order to have a more uh a higher
wisdom save if you don't intend to use
Ethel's hair for this character. The
difference is that you get alert. This
character is going to be the recipient
of our initiative gear or most of it
anyways. Uh, so it's not mandatory for
this character, but it does make the
gear requirements a little bit smoother.
So using Ethel's hair can boost this
character's damage output accordingly
while not giving up anything else. We
also are going to pick up our skills.
And because this is going to be our
highest charisma character, it's likely
to be your party face. Now, obviously,
as an allbard party, any character can
be the party face. Um, but having this
character do it means that you will have
uh the highest possible skill bonus in
the end game. In the early game, it can
be anyone cuz you won't have increased
your charisma yet um over 16. So either
way works just fine. If this is going to
be your party face, take deception and
intimidation and then you can pick up
persuasion when we multiclass into bard
or get that from your racer background.
Then at level two, we are immediately
multiclassing into bard. we now get for
our cantrip selection vicious mockery
because of course we're taking that on
everyone and blade as our main
frontlining character. We want blade
ward available on this character for
when we need to delay enemies for a turn
causing them to hit a character with
resistance. It also synergizes very well
with the extra temp HP that our
glamourbard will be passing out. For our
spell selection for this character,
we're going to be taking healing word
and dissonant whispers. Again, I think
having these stacked on everyone is very
powerful and very synergistic cuz it
means that anybody can use these. And
then this character is going to be our
main party face. So, we'll pick up
disguise self and speak with animals.
Obviously, you don't need speak with
animals if you just want to use potions.
So, you can swap this out for something
else like Bane or or um barrier, one of
those situational debuffs, but just
having these available on a character
already is pretty helpful. And our for
our uh turns in combat, we're mostly
going to be using dissonant whispers,
eldrich blast, or attacking with a melee
weapon. So, we don't need combat spells
from our first level spells. For our uh
skill selection here, you can pick up
persuasion if you didn't have that
already. And if not, then I recommend
grabbing insight. Again, as our main
party face, we want to pick up insight
so that this character can roll those
checks well in dialogue. Finally, of
course, as a bard, we need to pick our
instrument for this character. And this
character sets the rhythm of the fight.
So, I think it's going to be our
drummer.
Bard level three gives us song or
character level three. Bard level two
gives us song of rest. We also get jack
of all trades, which makes us okay at
the intelligent skills, even though we
didn't put proficiencies into those. Uh,
and then for our spell selection here,
again, you can pick up kind of whatever,
but let's have this character grab the
utility spells that we think we might
want. We'll grab Featherfall. We already
have Longstrider on another character,
so don't worry about not having it for
this one yet.
Level four, we get to choose our
subclass. And this, we already know, is
going to be our College of Valorbard.
So, Valorbard is very useful. You want
to pass out these BIC inspirations to
your allies, especially your archer
who's going to be making um who who can
use the extra armor class to avoid
taking hits. But the ability to use
combat inspiration to increase the
damage of your archer or basically give
the shield spell to your allies is
incredibly powerful and makes this uh
this party again significantly more
resilient than you would otherwise
think. between cutting words and combat
inspiration. Enemies will be making
attacks at much lower numbers than they
would be on paper, so they will miss you
very, very frequently. We also get level
two spells here, and we're going to pick
up cloud of daggers. That is the ability
to to concentrate on this while also
making weapon attacks is again one of
the things that makes this character
extremely powerful and this party
extremely powerful. And then we also get
expertise into dialogue skills uh or
into skills which we're going to pick up
deception and persuasion so that we can
be as good at as possible at dialogue.
Level five, we're taking our fourth
level of bard and we get an additional
cantrip. So here we are going to pick up
friends. Uh this character is going to
be our main party face. We haven't
needed friends up to this point. I think
having blade ward is a little more
important early on. You can also swap
friends and blade ward if you feel like
you really need it in the early game.
Um, and then we also get another second
level spell. Uh, just taking
enhancability on this character cuz
again this is going to carry most of our
utility spells for out of combat since
our spell slots are rarely going to be
used in combat. for our feet selection
for this character at level uh at this
level. If you're using Ethel's hair and
have the additional charisma um that
that will give you, then you're going to
take alert. If you're not using Ethel's
hair, then you're going to pick up an
ability improvement here and boost your
charisma. Just to keep things smooth,
I'm going to be showing the nonhair
version of the build, but um the version
of the build that's using Ethel's hair
to gain an additional point of charisma
will have alert here and thus have
significantly higher initiative at this
point in the game. Either way, you can
build this character and still have it
be extremely effective.
At bard level five, we get font of
inspiration. So again, our valorbard
inspirations are much much more
frequently available now. And we also
get third level bard spells. Uh for this
character, we're still going to pick up
hypnotic pattern because concentrating
on a powerful control spell um can still
be really good for this character. Uh
and you will concentrate on a powerful
control spell like hypnotic pattern and
fear, which we'll grab next level and
then just make melee weapon attacks with
the rest of your turns in combat.
Speaking of level six, we also get extra
attack as a valor bard. And so now we
can fire off two attacks. They will be
hitting very uh frequently because we're
using our charisma for that and doing
tons of additional damage because we
have booming blade and also a lot of
additional combat steroids from our
items, which will make our weapon
attacks do a significant amount of uh
melee damage while also having the
support and control spell casting
available to this character. Speaking of
control spell casting, fear is a nice
control spell for this character because
the main downside of this is that it
only has a 30-foot range. Since this is
a melee character, we're going to be
within that range pretty frequently. So,
fear can be very useful for us as well.
Bard level seven, we get fourth level
spells. And for this character, I like
having freedom of movement. This is
often going to be your character who is
least targeted by enemies because they
have the uh heaviest armor and highest
armor class typically. Um so having
freedom of movement to lock to take
enemies out of stun or take allies out
of stuns if they happen to get uh
trapped in a stun can be very helpful
for this character. So you can snap your
allies out of stuns. And again, we just
want utility spells since our spell
slots are less um valuable than those of
our party members.
Level eight, we get our second feat. And
whether or not we are using the um
Ethel's hair version of the build, we're
just going to max out our charisma. We
always want to get this as high as
possible. And we are also going to pick
up another spell. You can go back for a
a utility spell from earlier levels if
you feel like there's one that you're
missing. Uh but what I like to grab on
this character at this point is just
plant growth. Plant growth is a
non-conentration control spell that's
useful in some circumstances. It
combines well with hunger of Hadar,
which we have on a different character
as well. So, this character can make uh
tremendous use of that.
Character level 10, we're taking our
ninth level of bard. And here, we're
still going to grab hold monster. There
just aren't other bard spells that you
really need at uh from fifth level
spells. And a second copy of hold
monster can be really useful in some
encounters. Sometimes you miss with your
arcane acuity hold monster or you need
to hit multiple enemies in the same
turn. So having another character
capable of casting that can be really
strong.
And then of course at bard level 10 we
get a ton of stuff cuz bard level 10 is
one of the most uh heavily stacked
character levels in the game. So
firstly, of course, we're getting our
cantrip and once again true strike just
to keep irritating people in the
comments. We also get expertise into
more skills. So we can fill out our
dialogue skills. We can take expertise
in, let's say, intimidation and insight.
Now we just have expertise in every
important dialogue skill. Um, we also
get another fifth level spell. And for
this character, you can go back and take
earlier levels of spells. So you can
grab another uh copy of hold person if
you're finding that you need more casts
of that. It is still very good on this
character even though we can't bonus
action cast it because again the
automatic critical hits work for this
character just as well. So you can pick
up something like that. For our magical
secrets, this character is likely to be
uh using its reaction for other things.
So we're going to put counter spell on
somebody else. Um, but you can still
take another copy of counter spell if
you feel like you really need a third
copy. But what I like for magical
secrets on this character in this party
build is to take Conjra Elemental. This
is one of our characters that gets sixth
level spell slots. So having the Conjra
Mermadon is incredibly strong for us.
And then also Spirit Guardians. Spirit
guardians for a melee character gives us
a whole extra dimension to our
character. We can concentrate on this in
every encounter for massive damage and
stack up radiating orb. So, this
character is always going to want spirit
guardians. If you really want another
counter spell, you can replace conjur
elemental, but I prefer to have this
setup for this character. It's the
strongest in the end game.
And finally, a character level 12, we
get our sixth level spells. And the one
that we're taking from Bard is, of
course, Otto's Irresistible Dance. Um,
this character won't have the highest
save DCs in the game, but the ability to
cause an enemy to lose a turn with no
save at all is incredibly strong for us.
We will also uh this character is very
likely to be hasted either by a party
member or by drinking a potion of speed.
So, you can cast autos and then still
make weapon attacks as well. Um, and you
can refresh your sixth level spell slot
after summoning a Merurmodon using one
of the the spells or abilities that lets
you refresh your spell slots and then
still use autos in later fights. So, uh,
incredibly powerful tool for this
character. Items for the Valor bard are
actually very simple. We pretty much
just want defensive items because this
character is going to be receiving the
brunt of enemy attacks and so we need to
stay alive through that. And of course,
we also want to debuff enemies and use
synergy items with the fact that we're
doing tons of thunder and radiant damage
in melee range. So, we can use those to
lock down enemies and make them even
more incapable of hurting our party.
This is where this party gets so
ridiculous is enemies will be taking
huge penalties to every one of their
attack roles. And if they ever do manage
to land an attack that's going to hit,
we have uh combat inspiration from the
Valorbard, cutting words from the
Lorebard, shield on the Valorbard, and
various other reactions that just stop
enemies from ever doing anything. So the
fact that enemies will be making all
these attacks with penalties, with
disadvantage, they'll be knock a lot of
the time means that they just won't be
able to affect your party at all. Uh
looking at our items here. So firstly,
of course, we are going to be the
Furaloo carrier. If you want to use this
weapon, this is the best weapon in the
game, and it's a bard themed weapon, so
makes sense to have it on the melee
bard. And this is a great carrier for
it. You're always going to be up in the
mix. So you can uh use shriek on your
enemies very effectively. And um you are
going to hit with your attacks pretty
reliably regardless of only having a
plus one weapon. Uh, so it's very strong
on this character. This is also a good
character to use Saloon's spear of
night. Uh, having a plus three weapon of
course has its advantages and the
moonote action is very good for this
party as well. Difficult to rain on on
all of the enemies. Um, is going to
combine extremely well with your control
spells. So, it works very well to have a
have a character using Salun Spear of
Night if you took the story option that
gives it to you. In addition to that,
this character is going to have the
Sentinel shield if you don't have Alert.
If you do have Alert, you can use a
different shield like Viconia's walking
fortress or something like that. Just
anything that gives you the maximum
possibility, the the maximum defensive
capability. But the Sentinel shield, if
you are the non-alert build, is going to
be what lets you compete on initiative.
So, if you're not using Ethe's hair,
this is kind of mandatory. For our armor
selection, we want uh the potent robe if
we want to focus on damage because this
does boost the damage both of our
Eldrich Blasts and also our booming
blade attacks. So, the potent robe is
going to do a bunch of damage. For more
defensive options, you can use something
like the flame enameled armor for even
more initiative. Very solid medium
armor. This character is also a good
candidate for the Heldusk armor in the
end game um because you still have
proficiency with it and it just gives
you really high armor class and
everything. In the late late game though
once you get access to spirit guardians,
you'll probably want to swap back to the
luminous armor because radiating orb is
just that powerful and the luminous
armor allows you to apply it much more
readily. So, the luminous armor's
radiant shock waves, which inflict
radiating orb, will work with your
spirit guardians that you got from
magical secrets. You're then going to
combine those with the callus glow ring
in order to do radiant damage on every
single attack and the coruscation ring
to go with your spell damage on your
Eldrich Blasts and everything for even
more radiating orbs. Combine that as
well with the boots of stormy clamor and
the gloves of belligerent skies, which
you're going to use all game. These are
more the radiating orb stuff is only
once you get spirit guardians. But these
reverberation items are best in slot all
game. Uh because booming blade does
thunder damage as does far lou. So you
can stack huge amounts of reverberation
on enemies with every melee attack and
you'll be leaving enemies kneeling at
your feet no problem. The ring of
spiteful thunder makes a good uh
accompaniment to those until you want to
switch to the radiating orb items in the
later game. This character wants really
high charisma, so you'll probably use
the birthright hat just to boost your
charisma. And you can also use the
amulet of greater health. That will give
you a reasonable health pool, which is
something that this party of course is
missing. Since we're all bards, we have
relatively low health characters. Having
the amulet of greater health on your
main melee character gives you a
tremendous amount of additional
survivability. An alternative is is the
spine shutter amulet for even more
control with your Eldrich Blasts at
ranged. And you also, of course, are
going to want defensive items like the
ring of protection and the cloak of
protection to keep this character alive
while they're up in melee. For our third
character, we already have our main
melee damage dealer and our main ranged
damage dealer. So, let's build our main
offensive spellcaster. This character
will provide a lot of our control
effects as well as reactivity to what
enemies are doing and of course is going
to be our loreb. For this character, we
are starting with a level of bard,
although we'll be multiclassing somewhat
heavily. Um, but for our first level,
it's bard all the way. And for our
cantrip selection, we're going to be
taking vicious mockery and minor
illusion. This character will have
vicious mockery, of course, cuz we're
doing that on everyone. And minor
illusion to group enemies so that we can
drop them with AoE spells, which this
character will also be very capable of
casting. For our uh level one spell
selection, we're again taking dissonant
whispers and healing word like we are on
everybody. This character will also use
healing word even better because of our
cleric level that we're going to be
taking. And then for our additional
spells, we're going to take Thunderwave
as a uh spellcaster. This character does
not want to be in melee range with
enemies that frequently. So Thunderwave
can push you push them away if you end
up in a really bad situation. And then
we'll also take sleep for the early
game. Sleep is a really nice tool to
have in the very early game and
especially if you start with this as
your main character on the Nautiloid.
Um, having sleep can be extremely
helpful. Later on, we'll respspec this
once it falls off at later levels. For
our ability score selection for this
character, we're going to do a pretty
standard attribute split of 16
dexterity, 14 starting constitution, and
12 starting wisdom.
um as well as of course 16 charisma for
our spell selection. But importantly,
this character will also be using
intelligence for spell casting. And
we'll use the warped headband of
intellect for this. So as soon as we get
that item, we'll be boosting our
intelligence up to 17 or for an
effective plus three bonus on our
intelligence without having to spend any
attributes on it. We also get extra
skills since this is going to be a high
intelligence character. I like having
persuasion anyways because then if there
is a dialogue where you need the
intelligent skills, which is mostly what
we're going to be taking with our skill
selection here. So you can take like
Arcana history and investigation for
example on this character. You can still
use persuasion. Um if you want this
character to take point on dialogue as
opposed to our other characters, we'll
have slightly lower charisma than the
hexblade valorbard. Um, so usually
you'll want that character to make the
dialogue checks, but for dialogues where
there are knowledge checks, this
character can substitute, which I think
is kind of fun for both a the theming of
being a band, they actually help out and
support one another. And also for an
adventuring party where different
characters have different
specializations as opposed to having one
character take every single
conversation, which is the normal way to
do it. Uh, finally, of course, we get
our starting instrument. And I think
we're going to have this character play
be our loot player or luteier I think is
the the word. Um because this character
is really going to be the main driving
melody for the band here. Uh since you
are going to lock down enemies and leave
the rest of your party to clean up.
At character level two, we're
immediately going to multiclass and
we're going to take a level of cleric.
There's a few very important cleric
spells that we want available on this
character. Um, and it makes sense for
our main spellcaster to grab them. Also,
our levels are less uh constrained than
our other party members. So, we can fit
the level of cleric in for this
character. For our subclass, for our
cleric, we're going to take life domain.
Mostly, we're in cleric because it gives
us uh the powerful utility spells that
cleric gets, but it also gets us heavy
armor and shield proficiency on a
lorebard who otherwise wouldn't have
great defensive options. And there's
some really nice heavy armors that this
party can use. So, a level of life
cleric gives us access to those as well.
It also gives us bless as an always
prepared spell which effectively gets us
one more spell preparation. Um, this
there's several cleric spells that we
want access to on this character and
bless is definitely one of them. So,
having it as an autoprepared spell can
be very useful. Disciple of life is also
pretty nice with our healing word
ability as well. For our cantrip
selection, we're going to be taking
guidance. One of the really important
things that we want from a cleric level
is the ability to take guidance.
Resistance as well is really useful in
some story events and dialogue checks.
And then for our last uh one, we can
take a number of different options here,
but can be useful for the times where
you want this character to sub in and be
your party face. Um, for our cleric
abilities, these are kind of bugged, so
you shouldn't get these, but in the
current version of the game, when you
multiclass into cleric, you get two more
skill proficiencies. Uh, and so that'll
let you pick up religion and medicine.
So, you get even more of the
intelligence skills covered now. Um,
which is obviously awesome for the party
member that's going to do that. And then
for our prepared cleric spells, we're
going to go ahead and pick up sanctuary.
and we'll grab create or destroy water.
These are two extremely powerful utility
spells and uh defensive spells. And so
very nice to have them available for one
of our party members. Um so this
character can be that party member in
addition to bless which we already get
because we're a life cleric.
At level three, we're multiclassing yet
again and we're going to take a level of
wizard. This gives us a lot more
offensive capabilities and also gives us
a bunch of the utility spells that this
party is otherwise missing. It also,
since we've taken three class, three
caster levels, allows us to learn level
two wizard spells from scrolls. So, we
haven't really given up a lot of combat
capabilities. Um, even though we've
multiclassed really heavily in the early
game. Now, of course, you'll want the
warped headband of intellect in order to
cast wizard spells, but you can prepare
and cast at least one wizard spell at
this point, probably cloud of daggers,
depending on what scrolls you've found.
So, you can multiclass into wizard. You
can also delay taking this wizard level
until you have the warped headband if
you prefer to do that and take more
levels of bard instead, but this is the
most natural uh level progression for
the character. For our wizard cantrips,
we're going to take uh firebolt and ray
of frost and bone chill. That gives us a
ton of access to the most important
cantrips in the game. Uh, of course, ray
of frost is really helpful for freezing
puddles, firebolt for setting fires, and
bone chill for preventing enemies from
healing and giving undead a disadvantage
on their attacks. for our spell
selection at this level. Of course,
again, this will depend on what you've
learned from uh scrolls up until this
point, but the really important ones to
pick are shield, which there is no
scroll for, so you need to make sure you
have this. And find familiar, there's
also no scroll, and it's a pretty nice
boost to your party. Uh, in addition to
that, getting enhanced leap and mage
armor is really important. Magic missile
is a really important spell to have, and
chromatic orb is a really important
spell to have. Obviously, these other
ones will depend a little bit on what
scrolls you have found up until this
point, but these are the most important
spells to keep an eye out for. And then
at level two, you're going to want
spells like cloud of daggers and flaming
sphere. Just good combat spells that
don't require you to have super high
intelligence in the early game.
At level four, we're going back to bard.
And this, of course, gets a song of
rest, so we can again be even better at
helping out our allies. And we get an
additional spell selection here. You can
take kind of whatever. Another copy of
Longstrider just to save you some clicks
can be pretty useful. Um, at this point,
these are just for utility spells since
our main offensive spell casting is our
wizard spell casting.
Then at level five, we get to take our
bard subclass. And of course, our
subclass here is the College of Lore.
This makes us better at landing these
spells because we can reduce enemy
saving throws and we can also reduce
enemy attack roles which will let us
protect our allies even more. We also
get expertise into additional uh skills.
So again, this character could be your
party face if you want to pick up more
skill selections in dialogue skills and
grab expertise in those. You can also
take expertise in things like arcana and
history. Um really this is kind of
seasoned to taste. I also recommend
picking up acrobatics for this character
as well, just to make you a little bit
harder for enemies to shove around. We
also get level two bard spells. At this
point, you can pick up uh any spell
that's not available to a wizard.
Typically, utility spells that you
haven't picked up. Um, silence is nice
cuz there's no scrolls of this and you
always want to have silence available to
a party.
Bard level four, we're going to pick up
another cantrip here. And for this
character, this mostly doesn't matter at
this point if you're having this
character lead into being your party
face more. You can pick up friends or
you can take blade ward just as an
emergency panic button if this character
gets surrounded by enemies. For our
spell selection, we're going to take
cloud of daggers just to take some
strain off our wizard spell prepared
slots. At this point, we should have
four of those, but there's probably more
than four wizard spells that you want
since you now have access to third level
wizard spells as well. For our feet,
we're going to take alert so that this
character can always go first.
Bard level five, we get third level bard
spells. And for this character, we're
going to pick up hypnotic pattern.
Again, a really powerful control spell
to concentrate on. Something that you
might be wondering about too is how this
character can function with um
relatively low charisma and
intelligence. We're only going to have
plus three bonuses. This character is
going to stack all of our save DC gear.
So, these spells are still going to land
incredibly reliably. We'll also replace
one of our weaker spells from lower
levels uh that we no longer need. In
this case, probably sleep. And we're
going to pick up glyph of warding. This
is going to be our main non-conentration
combat spell because uh it does great
AoE damage and also AoE control.
Then at bard level six, we not only get
another spell that we another uh third
level bard spell that we can pick up and
you can go back for other control
spells, things like heat metal at this
point. Um this again is going to depend
quite a bit on what wizard scrolls
you've found and which you are using
most often. The things that this
character is going to concentrate on
most often are going to be haste,
hypnotic pattern, uh or fear. And the
things you're going to be casting most
often with your spell slots are going to
be chromatic orb, magic missile,
lightning bolt as your main damage
spell, and glyph of warding as your
other main damage spell. So, you can mix
in other control spells kind of to taste
depending on exactly what you feel like
your party needs. Heat metal can be
useful in some encounters. The main
other thing that you get, of course, at
this level is magical secrets, which
gives us incredible control options. And
this character, of course, is going to
pick up counter spell. This is going to
be our main counter spell user for the
end of act two and the beginning of act
three when it becomes really important
to have a copy of counter spell. It is
true that this party delays counter
spell by a a few levels compared to
normal. So you will have shields down
for a little bit there. Um but that's a
small price to pay for the power that we
otherwise get. In addition to that,
you're going to pick up hunger of Hadar.
This is yet another one of the very best
spells in the game. Not available to
wizards or bards normally. And so this
character can pick it up from magical
secrets and have a game-winning uh spell
to concentrate on in most encounters
where it's good.
Character level nine, we're taking our
seventh level of lore bard and we now
get fourth level bard spells. Um this
character is going to pick up confusion.
Again, this is going to be our main
offensive spellcaster. So we still want
uh control and lockdown spells available
to us. And then at bard level eight, we
are going to get yet another lockown
spell. We can go back for fear. This is
available as a wizard spell, but having
them as bard spells again uh frees up
your wizard spell preparation slot, so
it can still be useful to take spells
that you can learn as a wizard
regardless. For our feat selection here,
uh we actually have a couple options.
You can take an ability improvement to
boost your charisma. That'll let your
bard spells land more frequently. Also,
if this character is doing dialogue,
then that'll make it be make them better
at it. Another option, of course, is to
take warcaster. We're going to be
concentrating on a spell all the time,
so advantage on concentration saves can
be really useful. If you find that
you're dropping your concentration
frequently, take Warcaster. Otherwise,
just boost your charisma. Most of the
time, the number of defensive abilities
that your party has should be enough
that this character doesn't get hit. So,
you shouldn't need Warcaster. But, it's
definitely an option if you find that
you're using it frequently. You could
also take Heavy Armor Master to reduce
incoming damage. This is a more niche
pick, but could let this character sub
in uh to tank a little bit if you find
that your party is needing more of that.
Again, this is going to come down to
personal play style and exactly what
order you do the encounters in. But I
think overall the the most natural and
best option is just an ASI to boost your
charisma.
Then bard level 9, we get fifth level
bard spells. And here again, the only
really important one is hold monster. So
you can pick that up or again you can go
back for utility spells that you feel
like you're missing at this point in the
game. Um this character usually won't
want to concentrate on hold monster cuz
your other party members will take care
of casting that. Being able to paralyze
three dangerous enemies with three
different characters is still really
good. So, uh, can be a nice option to
have. And finally, a character level 12,
we get our 10th level of lorebard. And
again, this is one of the most stacked
levels in the game. We just get so many
different things. Expertise in some
additional skills. So, let's take
acrobatics expertise, so nothing can
ever shove us. Um, or of course you can
take expertise in dialogue skills if you
are having this character do more of the
dialogue checks for your party. For arc
canrip selection, once again it's true
strike just to uh keep the comment train
rolling. Spell selection here. You can
pick up a greater invisibility for your
archer or if you want to have two copies
of this. We'll already have this on the
glamourbard available, but a second
greater invisibility can let two of your
characters start combats without enemy
retaliation. But of course, what we're
really here for is the magical secrets.
For these, we have two options. We can
either focus on spells that are not
available to wizards in order to expand
our spell list, or we can focus on
wizard spells to again ease up our spell
preparation requirements cuz we still
only have four prepared spell slots as a
wizard. Uh I tend to prefer the latter.
It just makes this uh this character
play out much smoother. But some good
options include spike growth, not a
wizard spell, but still really good even
in the very very late game. Sletorm
you're going to be using all the time.
Haste you may be casting pretty
frequently. Conjur elemental you'll be
using every day. Um wall of fire you'll
be using often. Lightning bolt. So
overall my favorite ones to pick here
are lightning bolt and condra elemental
just to save the spell preparation
slots. But you can uh or uh misty step
as well is another great option. Um, but
you can pick what you're using based on
how frequently you're using the spells
to stop yourself from having to prepare
specific things. Items for this
character are extremely simple. We only
care about two things. Defensive
abilities, so just anything that makes
our character tankier and spell save DC.
This character is going to be an
offensive spellcaster and basically a
pure uh spellcaster. So, we just want
every item that boosts our save DC.
Taking a look at those items, uh, of
course, the first and most important one
is the warp headband of intellect. This
will allow us to have higher
intelligence, and so this character can
now actually use and prepare wizard
spells. This will also be our
spell-casting ability for items. So, the
spells that we're casting for Marahesh
are going to use intelligence. So, we
need the warped headband in order to
keep that going. We also in the early
game, this character is going to use the
wondrous gloves. Extra cutting words are
really good. An extra armor class is
great. Then in the late game, the hell
dust gloves, cuz those again give you an
additional bonus to your spell save DC,
which is all that this character cares
about. For our armor, we're going to use
uh any powerful defensive heavy armor.
So, the adamantian splint armor in the
early game, we'll swap that to the
dwarven splint mail and then eventually
the armor of persistence. Also, for a
more offensive take on the build, you
can go with the robe of the weave in the
endgame again to increase your spell
safety. You do give up some armor class,
but not as much as you would think cuz
this still has pretty decent armor class
when combined with mage armor. Um, for
our shield, we're going to use Ke's
shield, spell save DC boost, and then
for our weapon, Marahesh gear in the
endame as the best endgame uh
spellcaster weapon with again a spell DC
boost. and also the ability to cast
chain lightning once per short rest,
which remember for this party is seven
times per day. So that's an enormous
number of extra chain lightnings. So
this character's burst damage becomes
incredible in every single encounter. Up
until that point, we're going to use any
staff with a save DC boost. So Mel's
first staff is the first one of those
that you get. Probably going to be your
staff for most of the game. The boots of
striding prevent us from being knocked
prone. We have medium armor proficiency
and this character is going to be
concentrating on a spell pretty much all
the time. Uh so the boots of striding
are great for this character. And then
uh the amulet of the devout increases
our spell save DC as do elixirs of
battle mage's power. If we're using an
elixir on this character, that's going
to be the one. And you can see that when
you add all these save DC boosts up, the
fact that we have slightly lower
charisma or slightly lower intelligence
mostly doesn't matter cuz our save DCs
are going to be really, really high once
we stack all of this gear. Anyways,
finally, the ring of Fay Wild sparks is
really important as well. It's not
listed in the tool tip, but this also
gives you plus one to your spell save
DCs. It's a pretty bad tool tip error,
but this uh ring is great for any
spellcaster, not just wild magic
sorcerers, cuz it boosts your save DCs
as well. An alternative option is to use
a stat item. So, if you're not using the
gloves of dexterity on your archer or
you're not using the um the amulet of
health on your valor bard, then you can
take higher intelligence and reduce your
dexterity or constitution appropriately.
Uh, and then swap the warped headband of
intellect for the fistbreaker helm for
initiative and save DC or the hood of
the weave for the endgame for even more
save DC. Again, you should be noticing a
theme here. Finally, important for this
character to select a bunch of um,
wizard scrolls. And some important ones
to look out for are cloud of daggers be
your most important combat spell in the
early game. Haste is great for this
character to concentrate on for uh,
fights where you don't want to be as
aggressive. Having haste on your archer
can easily win you fights. And if you
have this character hasting them and
your glamour bard giving them greater
invisibility, then the archer can just
solo encounters without enemies ever
getting a turn. Other important ones are
things like wall of fire, conjure
elemental, globe of invulnerability, a
key spell for the late game, and you
also get the uh the unique wizard
spells. So, artistry of war is available
to this character as well. Finally, for
our fourth character, we already have
offensive capability in the form of
melee damage, ranged damage, and
offensive spell casting. So, let's add
some healing and support. This, of
course, is normally what bards are known
for is supporting spells, but we've
actually steered clear of those with a
lot of our other builds. This character
is going to take care of them. You may
recognize this build cuz I've used it, I
think, in one other full party build. I
think this is one of the most fun builds
in the game to play and I really enjoy
using it and it fits very well into this
party as well. We're going to start with
a level of bard for our glamour bard
here. And for our cantrip selection,
we're going to take vicious mockery. And
then for our second cantrip, it mostly
doesn't matter. You can take dancing
lights to block poison vents. You can
take a second copy of light or minor
illusion or mage hand. Um any of those
spells are totally reasonable for your
utility casting for this character. For
our spell selection, of course, we're
taking healing word. This is also our
main healer, so healing word is going to
be even more important. And dissonant
whispers for early game lockdown. And
then we're also going to take cure
wounds on this character. Cure wounds is
um normally a very weak spell, but for
this character actually pretty useful
because we are taking Druid of the
Stars. We can trigger our chalice
healing now either with a bonus action
by casting healing word or with a full
action by casting cure wounds. So having
the versatility to use either action
type to trigger chalice healing can be
pretty useful. That's why I like having
both of those on this character. Even
though normally cure wounds is a fairly
weak spell. We can also pick up uh any
supporting or utility spell for this uh
character. Featherfall can be
reasonable. Fairy fire can be
reasonable. Whatever you didn't take on
your other characters, this character
can take care of. For our ability score
selection, we're again going to take a
very standard attribute split for this
character with 16 in dexterity, 14 in
constitution, 16 in charism, charisma,
and 12 in wisdom. And for our skill
selection, this character really doesn't
need specific skills because we already
kind of have all of our skills covered,
but picking up perception and survival
can be useful. You don't have those uh
skills available on other party members.
While survival isn't necessary because
you can just dig even if you failed the
survival check. It can save you a bunch
of clicks and that's really what we're
focusing on at this point. Then
acrobatics to avoid being shoved around
is always nice or you can take
performance for flavor reasons. Finally,
for our instrument, of course, I think
this is going to be our floutist for the
band. Um, really the supporting
character, but also secretly the one who
drives all of the important things.
At character level two, we're going to
be taking another level of bard. Now, if
you've seen me build this character
before, you'll notice that this is a
departure from the normal leveling order
for this build. Um, because usually I
would get the druid level earlier in
order to have those utility spells.
Since our party has a cleric in it
already with a level of cleric on our
caster on our lore bard, we don't need
the druid utility spells as early, so we
can delay those a little bit to get our
glamourbard abilities online a little
sooner. So that's why we're leveling in
this order as opposed to the other one.
For our spell selection at this level,
we're going to pick up Thunderwave.
Again, this character mostly doesn't
want to be surrounded by enemies, so the
ability to push them away can be pretty
useful.
Level three, we're choosing our subass,
which of course is the College of
Glamour. This gives us Mantle of
Inspiration, so we can give two allies
five temp HP. And remember, we can
repeat this as often as we have
inspiration dice since we're we have um
song of rest on every single party
member. That's going to be massive
amounts of additional temp HP over the
course of an adventuring day. This also
allows us to have enemies uh be charmed
with no saving throw, which will then
let us lock them down with Mantle of
Majesty, also with no saving throw. So,
this character can do incredibly potent
lockdown in encounters where enemies are
not immune to charm and also of course
can still lock down enemies with Mantle
of Majesty if they fail their saves,
which they still have a very decent
chance of doing. This uh mitigates the
fact that our party is somewhat squishy
by giving us a a truly tremendous amount
of temporary hit points um through
Mantle of Inspiration. So, this uh party
is surprisingly resilient between the
valorbard uh combat inspiration, the
lorebard cutting words, and the
glamourbard mantle of inspiration.
Enemies are just not able to do
meaningful damage to you, even though
we're all bards. For our spell selection
here, again, we're picking a combat
spell with cloud of daggers. Layering
multiple cloud of daggers ends fights
really, really fast. So having multiples
of these available to cover the whole
battlefield in them is extremely
helpful. And then we're going to pick up
our uh our expertise in multiple skills
as well. And again, you can pick up uh
perception expertise. Someone in the
party should have this. So I like
grabbing that just to make sure that
we're passing our perception checks and
seeing traps pretty easily. Then at
level four, it's time to multiclass. So
we're going to go ahead and add our uh
druid levels here. And this gives us
shield proficiency and medium armor
proficiency. So it makes this character
much much harder to kill. We also get
druid cantrips. Now we're going to get
guidance next level from taking star
druid. So you could pick it up now if
you want your second copy of guidance
and then respspec later. But just to
keep things simple, we're going to take
thorn whip and we'll take a second copy
of resistance. Um this gives us just a
little bit more utility. And if we need
to react with resistance to one thing
thing while also casting enhance ability
or something with a different character
or not break concentration, then we have
that option. For our druid spells here,
we get enhanced leap and longstrider.
Now, these are already available in part
to our wizard, but if you haven't found
scrolls for enhanced leap, then you can
grab this on this character. And this
character can also just be the one that
ritually casts these spells. very
helpful to have those available.
Fogcloud is also an option if you're
using one of uh these prepared spells on
a different character.
Then our second druid level and here we
get circle of the stars. So circle of
the stars gives us guidance as a cantrip
of course which is great to have a
second copy of guidance. Just means we
can always use guidance even if we want
to use a different reaction like for
example an inspiration with another
party member. Um and we have the starry
forms. There are three different starry
forms. So we can take archer for more uh
ranged radiant damage. Very very
powerful to have this option available.
Though usually you are going to use
dragon over archer um because the damage
is higher and it's AOE. But either of
these are great options. You can also
use radiating orb gear on this character
in the early game before you put it on
your valor bard in the end game when
that character gets access to spirit
guardians. Most of the time though, this
character is going to be in chalice form
because it's going to be your main
healer and so the free extra chalice
healing is another great way to keep
your party members alive. Also, don't
underestimate uh the the free guiding
bolts from star maps. Although this
character only has 12 wisdom, so the
guiding bolts are going to have a really
low hit chance normally. There are lots
of times where enemies are hold personed
by this party. And uh guiding bolt is an
attack role, so it will automatically
hit and automatically crit against an
enemy who is paralyzed. Since this party
applies tons and tons of paralyze, these
guiding bolt critical hits can be huge
amounts of damage for this character. So
it can let an otherwise purely
supporting character do massive critical
hit damage.
Then at character level six, it's back
to bard. This way we can start leveling
up our glamour bard abilities and of
course get access to higher level bard
spells for our cantrip selection here.
It again mostly doesn't matter. Though
having blade ward on this character can
be pretty useful um because again we
don't want to have this character taking
a lot of damage. So, if enemies surround
you, this can be a good panic button.
And combined with your temp HP from
Mantle of Inspiration and all of the
mitigation that other party members are
providing, this can be extremely
helpful. For our spell selection here,
we're going to go ahead and take
enhancability. This character can take
more offensive spells, but it's nice to
have a character that's dedicated to
picking up the support spells. So, we're
going to do that for this character.
Then, we're going to grab alert as our
feat. you don't actually need massively
high charisma because we're mostly
taking supporting spells for this
character rather than um offensive
spells that care about having high save
DC. So picking up alert can be really
really helpful. Um of so obviously we
want alert for pretty much every
character in honor mode, but it is even
easier to fit it in for this build since
you don't need super high charisma.
Bard level five gets us font of
inspiration. So again, we can now use
our glamourbard abilities even more
frequently and also higher level spells.
Um, this character can use glyph of
warding because we're probably
concentrating on other buff spells in
combat. You can also use plant growth.
It's kind of on theme for the character
and plant growth is a nice one to have
available as well. Utility spells like
invisibility. We can also replace some
of our lower level spells if there's one
if there are ones that you are finding
you're not using frequently. You can
start picking those up as well at this
point.
Then at bard level six, we get Mantle of
Majesty. This lets us use command as a
bonus action once per day. And there's
no saving throw against this effect. Uh
for 10 turns straight, we can use
command as a bonus action. Um and
there's no saving throw against this
effect if an enemy is charmed. That's
why we grabbed charm person on our
swordsbard and also why mantle of
inspiration is so good. Enemies who hit
one of our allies will be charmed with
no save and then we can hit them with
mantle of command of majesty with no
save. Uh this spell also or this ability
also doesn't have the normal targeting
restrictions that command has. So we can
use it on undead. In particular, it's
nice to get it at level eight because
then we'll have it for the Keerick fight
where it's incredibly powerful.
For our spell selection at this level,
um we're just going to pick up plant
growth. Again, this character wants to
focus on buffing and supporting its
allies and is mostly going to be
concentrating on Mantle of Majesty. So,
you mostly want non-conentration combat
spells.
Bard level seven, we get fourth level
spells. And then here, we're going to
pick up greater invisibility. Now,
obviously, this is a really overpowered
strategy using greater invisibility with
stealth expertise for your party
members. Um, but we don't have pass
without trace, so it's not as abusive as
this strategy usually is, and it can
still let you get in a few free hits
before combat starts. So, it's an
extremely potent tool for this party,
especially given how much damage our
swordbard archer does.
Level eight, we get another spell, and
we're going to take freedom of movement.
Again, we want the ability to snap our
allies out of stuns if they happen to
get a stun landed on them. And so having
freedom of movement to remove stuns can
be really really helpful. Especially if
our uh lorebard was concentrating on
haste, you can use freedom of movement
to snap them out of to snap the haste
target out of lethargic if you
accidentally break concentration on
haste by casting another concentration
spell. Or of course if an enemy manages
to damage you, though admittedly that's
pretty unlikely. For our feet here,
we're going to just take an ability
improvement and boost our charisma. Save
DCs do still matter for this character.
Although again, since this character
doesn't need incredibly high charisma,
you could also pick up Warcaster on this
one because um maintaining concentration
on Mantle of Majesty, maintaining
concentration on Greater Invisibility or
other uh concentration spells is still
really important for this character. So,
if you find that you're dropping
concentration frequently, Warcaster is a
great option. Usually, I think for most
characters, you're going to want the
charisma boost, but both of these feats
are worth mentioning.
Bard level 9, we get um an additional
spell selection here. And again, we're
going to take hold monster. Still just
super useful to be able to paralyze with
every single party member. And so, even
though the safe DCs will be a little
lower on this character, can still be
incredibly strong. And then finally at
um at bard level 10, we get our magical
secrets as well as a bunch of other
stuff. So also at bard level 10, mantle
of inspiration goes up to targeting four
allies and gives them 11 temp HP each.
So each inspiration die we spend on it
is 44 temp HP for our party. Um, and if
you count the fact that we have seven uh
uses of our short rest abilities every
day, all our inspiration dice come back
on a short rest. Um, I'm not going to
bother doing the math, but it's a truly
ridiculous number of temp HP over the
course of a day. Feel free to do the
math in the comments. Um, here we also
get to grab expertise in a couple more
of our skills. uh which this character
is not going to be our main skill user,
so it mostly doesn't matter, but uh
that's still nice to have. Of course, we
get to take true strike to continue
irritating people in the comments below.
And then we get to go back and grab
another utility spell from earlier
levels. Anything that you feel like your
party is missing, or of course, you can
get a uh concentration spell like hold
person, hypnotic pattern, or fear in
order to have even more access to those
effects. The really important part
though is that this character now gets
magical secrets and there's a lot of
great options for this character um
because we are a healer and so there are
several spells that we can use very
effectively. Mass healing word is really
nice to have. This gives us a bonus
action way to apply all the buff on heal
items in a single spell cast. And
similarly, warden of vitality is a
non-conentration way to give us a bonus
action heal. Now, I usually am happy to
just spend a spell slot or healing word
on this character if I want a bonus
action heal. So, I'm not usually going
to take warden of vitality, but it's
worth mentioning for a healing build
like this one. In addition to mass
healing word, I think that the most
natural second picks are, of course,
counter spell. This character doesn't
have great uses for its reaction, so
usually this is going to be an excellent
character to use counter spell on. We
also have six level spell slots, so we
can counter anything in the game. Um, or
you could take Condra Elemental for a
third Mermadon if you really want a
summon focused build. This is also a
really strong strategy with Mantle of
Inspiration because you can put those on
the Mermadons and you don't care if they
get hit. So, it's great a great way to
add extra HP to your slightly squishy
party as well as charm a bunch of
enemies. So, either of those make
amazing picks as well. Items for this
character are really very simple.
There's only a few things that we care
about at all. We want the buff on heal
items. So, the Hell Rider's Pride, which
gives Blade Ward when we heal an ally,
and the Whispering Promise, which gives
bless when we heal an ally. And then
later on, we'll swap the Hell Rider's
Pride for the Reviving Hands in the late
game because they're just an upgraded
version of the same item. In addition to
this, the Ring of Salving will give us
uh extra hit points while we heal our
allies. And the boots of aid and comfort
will give additional temporary hit
points. Now, these will usually be eaten
by our mantle of inspiration healing.
Um, but it's still useful to be able to
reset our uh temp HP for uh allies who
don't have mantle of inspiration before
we have the ability to cast it on all of
our party members. So, you can make sure
that you're passing out temp HP all the
time. Um, but mantle of inspiration will
usually override this. This is still
just a useful bonus. In addition to
that, you want any save DC item that
isn't currently being used by your
wizard. So, you can swap your save DC
item over to this character. This
character is going to be using fewer
offensive spells, but still some. So,
items like the fistbreaker helm or the
hood of the weave if you're not using
them on your loreb and wizard character
uh will be useful for this character.
And then defensive items, the best uh
medium armor that you can find in terms
of defense in act one. That's going to
be the adamantine scale male. And then
later on, you can swap to the flame
enameled armor or the armor of agility,
whichever one is not currently in use by
another party member, depending on
exactly how you have geared uh with the
options that I've already mentioned.
Your shield is going to be the
adamantine shield or the safeguard
shield. Usually the safeguard shield and
then swapping to the adamantine shield
later on. Though, if you're using the
adamantine scale mail, you may wish to
stay with the safeguard shield because
the critical hit immunity is redundant.
You don't so you don't need both of
these items at the same time. A good
weapon for this character is the
devotees mace, the healing incense aura.
You can get this by having a character
spec into cleric level 10. Um, and then
uh use their miracle on summoning the
mace and then uh you can just respspec
them. So you can either use this with a
main character or have a cleric camp cer
who does this. Having a cleric camp
caster is useful to this party as well
because that will get you aid and heroes
feast which are spells that this party
is is missing. So if you are using camp
casting that's a very powerful tool
available to this party. Finally uh
potions of healing are also really nice
to carry around for this character. You
get benefits when you heal allies. So,
the ability to throw a potion at an ally
and hit them with blade ward and bless
in addition to that, very helpful as
well. So, make sure that this character
has potions. But mostly, you're just
going to use this character for utility
items. Just anything that you've always
wanted to try out. Uh you can equip in
this character's item slots and of
course the healing items. All right, my
friends. I hope that you have enjoyed
this look at an allbard party for honor
mode and I hope that it has inspired you
for your upcoming honor mode
playthroughs. Uh, honestly, I found this
party, I mean, I love bards, so I'm a
little biased here, but I found this
party to be ridiculously fun to play.
Um, it just gives you so many options
all the time. The layering of
inspiration is really funny and the way
that it works with reacting to various
enemy actions. the fact that you can
have um so many tricky options at all
times and of course you have a
tremendous amount of damage and
survivability to back up all the tricky
things that you're doing. So even if
you're not mocking enemies to death, uh
you can also just overwhelm them with
massive force. As always, of course, if
you have enjoyed the video, feel free to
leave a comment and hit like. Helps me
out with the algorithm. If you need any
more detail about any of these builds,
go check out the links in the
description below where I'll link to the
uh full build guides for each of these
four characters, though obviously
they've been slightly adjusted to fit
into this party. And of course, uh you
can subscribe to my channel for more
Balders's Gate 3 build guides and other
strategy game analysis. Cheers my
friends and uh rock
