Hello my friends and welcome back to
another Balders's Gate 3 full party
building guide for Honor Mode. Hope
you're all doing well. Today we're
covering a controlbased party. So if you
want to leave your enemies helpless and
completely unable to fight back before
you eventually finish them off at your
leisure, this is the party for you. This
build neutralizes every important threat
and counters any that remain. So, no
matter how difficult the encounter, the
enemies will never be able to pose a
danger, if they can even act at all.
Just as with all of my full party
builds, these four builds that I'm going
to show you are individually very
powerful and work even better together.
They require no specific story choices
for any of the items or uh events or
anything. And of course, the items
themselves don't overlap between the
four builds. So, no matter how you want
to play, this party will be able to
handle it. For this build in particular,
I'm also emphasizing characters with a
lot of strategic choices. So, if you
want interesting combats where you make
a lot of decisions, then this is the
party that you're looking for. As always
for these videos, I'll be going over
each of the characters, how to build
them, and how to itemize them. And if
you have any more questions about the
characters, I'll link the detailed build
guides for each of these builds in the
description below. Before I begin, I do
want to take a quick moment to say thank
you so much to Tarantula for the $10
donation, Wanda Husbando for the £5, Ken
Porter for the $20, and Domass
Tensolskis, Bingle Bongle, and 410
Blazian for becoming channel members.
Thank you so much, my friends. I really
appreciate the support. It really means
so much to me. All right, let's take
control. For our first character, we're
going to be completely shutting off
enemies that rely on attack rolls by
reducing their chances to hit to nearly
zero. This character is going to use the
radiating orb debuff to reduce enemy
attack roles to minus 10, what they
would normally be, which means they'll
almost never hit. In addition to that,
we're going to be stacking the
reverberation debuff on them to knock
them prone and reduce their saving
throws and also come with a great suite
of control spells as well as supporting
spells for our allies to make ourselves
even more defensive. If you uh watched
my recent build video on this, you've
seen a preview, but there are some
significant changes to this character
compared to the default way to build it
so that it fits in this party. So, I'll
be going through those as we go through
our light cleric as well. Although this
is a cleric build, we're going to be
starting with a level of druid because
we're going to be using the star druid's
star forms to do even more radiant
damage, applying more radiating orb
debuffs. So, we're taking druid as our
first level. For our cantrip selection
on druid, we're going to be taking
challe and thorn whip. These are two
powerful early game combat cantrips. And
one of the great things about this party
is how strong we are early. This
character is a huge contributor to that
because between having good melee
attacks and the bonus actions from star
droid, we can win a lot of early game
fights very very easily. We'll also get
guidance for free at level two, so we
don't need to take that at level one.
And we'll still get our two copies of
guidance for the party. I like to have
two copies so that each character can
react if you want the to any skill check
if you want the other character to react
in a different way. for example, by
casting BIC inspiration. For our ability
score selection, this is one of the
places where this character is going to
differ slightly from the uh previous
version of this build or from the more
default and more general version of this
build because for this party, our
initiative gear is going to go on a
different character. So, um we're going
to want to take alert on this character,
which means we need to reorganize our
attributes very slightly. For that
reason, we're going to take 17 starting
wisdom, 14 starting constitution, and 16
starting dexterity. And then we can put
our last two points anywhere. I'm
usually just going to put them in
strength for a little bit of extra carry
weight. Um though you could put them in
intelligence or charisma if you prefer.
Then we're going to use our odd starting
wisdom and increase that to 18 using
either Ethel's hair or Khaled's gift,
the amulet that uh boosts your wisdom by
one. um depending on what story event
you want to do in your playthrough uh in
order to hit um 20 wisdom with only one
ASI. So, we can still fit alert in for
this character. So, it's a a clean way
to move our initiative gear, which we
used on this build in the other video,
to a different character. So, that's one
major difference. For our skill
selection for this character, we're
going to take perception. This is a
wisdom based character that gets
perception. So, this is going to handle
perception checks. Other than that, it
doesn't really matter. So, we'll put the
last point into survival just to save
you some clicks. Survival doesn't uh
isn't required because even if you fail
a survival check, you can still dig in
that area and find the chest, but it
will save you some clicking around if
you just pass the survival check in the
first place. And we don't need any of
these other skills. That's it for level
one. Let's go to level two. At level two
for this character, we're taking our
second level of druid, and we're going
to take the circle of the stars druid.
This gives us guidance as well as uh
free casts of Guiding Bolt using these
star maps, which is a very useful
ability all throughout the game. Being
able to cast Guiding Bolt on this
character that's themed around doing
radiant damage is extremely helpful
because it's just a good source of
radiant damage without spending a spell
slot. In addition to that, we get our
star druid starry forms, which are going
to let us use a bonus action to do even
more radiant damage, either with the
archer form for a d8 plus three plus our
wisdom at range or with the dragon form
for an AoE uh 2d6 plus our wisdom.
Usually, you're going to be in dragon
form on this character because you're
going to want to be maintaining
concentration on spells at all times.
And this gives you uh the basic
inability to fail concentration checks.
Um and then also you're always going to
be up close to enemies, so you'll be
able to hit a lot of them with dazzling
breath and debuff a big group of
enemies.
For our prepared spells for this
character, you get enhanced leap and
long strider, which of course every
party wants to have access to these two
mobility based ritual spells that don't
take spell slots to use outside of
combat. So this character is providing
those for the party. We're also going to
add in healing word um and fogcloud.
These are two very helpful uh combat
spells to have being able to give you
bonus action healing and no safe
blinding on enemies. And then a control
spell in the form of entangle which is
very good against melee enemies. So
we're already pretty well set up for
controlling and damaging enemies even at
low levels. At level three, we've taken
uh we've gotten our star druid powers
online. So, we want to get spirit
guardians as quickly as we can in order
to allow us to apply radiating orbs more
easily and passively while we just run
around. For that reason, we're
immediately multiclassing into cleric.
And for our cleric subclass, we're going
to take light domain cleric. This gives
us warding flare for another defensive
option. So, this is going to prevent
enemies from hitting us. And since
they're going to be taking huge
penalties on attacks, this reaction will
basically force enemies to miss pretty
much every attack that they make. It
also notably gives us light for free,
which is kind of a nice utility cantrip
to get for free. Every party wants
access to a a real light source, and
this is the best way to do it. So, just
getting it for free is kind of nice on
this character as well. Um, and we get
to take some cleric cantrips. So, for
our cleric cantrips, we're going to take
sacred flame to apply radiant damage at
range. Uh, we're going to take toll the
dead because um before we get our
radiant synergies online, toll the dead
is our going to be our best combat
cantrip. And there will still be times
when we want to just do the most damage
possible. So, it's pretty nice to have
that as well. And then we'll take
resistance. You again want at least one
copy of resistance in your party. So,
this character can provide that. Also,
uh, at time of recording, there is still
the bug where cleric gets two extra
spells or two extra skill proficiencies
when you multiclass into cleric at later
levels. So, you can just put these
anywhere. It doesn't really matter what
you take, but taking medicine is kind of
nice because then this is another wisdom
based skill that you can have a high
bonus to um across the whole party. And
then for our spell selection here, uh,
we're going to go with command to lock
down enemies even more. This, of course,
is probably the single best control tool
in the game. So, obviously in a
control-based party, we want access to
command. We'll also pick up bless to
buff our party members, sanctuary to
defend them, and then for our last
spell, you have a couple different
options here, but having create water
prepared is never bad. So, you can pick
that up um since we already have healing
word from our druid levels. Or you can
move your spells around if you want to
change your spell selection slightly.
But the most important ones are command,
bless, and sanctuary to give you yet
more defensive and offensive options.
Level four, we're taking our second
level of cleric, getting radiance of the
dawn, which lets us again do a big AoE
radiant damage burst for even more
debuffing.
And at level uh five, we get our third
level of cleric. The important spells
that we get at uh cleric level three are
of course hold person yet more lockdown
for the party, aid to help defend the
party, and spiritual weapon which can
distract enemies and uh given that we're
applying all of these attack penalties,
they will often attack the spiritual
weapon and not be able to hit it at all.
So, it can just buy you extra turns of
the enemy doing nothing. Warding bond is
also very good for this party. I'll talk
about that a little bit more um later
on, but basically if you warding bond
your other melee character uh up front,
then that is some pretty strong synergy
that can divide the damage between you
if enemies do ever get to make any do
ever get to do meaningful damage.
At cleric level four, we get our first
feat. And we already talked about
boosting our wisdom using Khaled's gift
or Ethel's hair. So our feed here is
going to be alert. This way we don't
have to use too much initiative gear on
this character and we'll still always go
before enemies so we can lock them down
immediately. Um we also get an
additional cantrip and you can take
blade ward to help protect yourself or
bursting senue if you just want to have
fun exploding corpses. Blade ward will
sometimes come up, so it's what I'm
going to take here, but it doesn't come
up so often that you can't just uh have
a good time by blowing up some dead
bodies.
At cleric level five, we get access to
spirit guardians, which of course will
let us apply radiant damage and
radiating orbs just by passively running
around the battlefield. This character
is amazing at concentrating on spells
thanks to dragon form, so we'll never
drop concentration on this, and it's
going to apply a ton of debuffs just as
we move around. We also get fireball,
which is not an irrelevant uh spell to
have. It's non-conentration. So, if you
just need to fry a bunch of small
enemies, that's a great go-to. For
prepared spells at this level, the
important ones that we're adding are, of
course, spirit guardians. And we'll also
add glyph of warding because this is yet
another AoE control effect if we want it
and gives us um versatile damage types
for fights where we need that. Cast
glyph of warding under an enemy, it
blows up right away. So, you can use any
of the glyph types.
At character level eight, this is where
we're going to make a slight deviation
uh again from the more generic version
of the build. Since this party doesn't
normally get access to spike growth, and
this is still an extremely powerful
powerful and relevant spell even this
late, uh we're going to take our third
level of druid. we'll still hit all our
important cleric spells, but there's a
lot of fights in like late act two and
early act three where spike growth is
still the best thing that you can do.
So, taking one more level of druid
doesn't slow down our spellcasting
progression by that much. Um, and gets
us access to yet another pretty
important tool for the party. We also
get moon beam and moon beam sanctuary is
still a broken combo. So, there's some
fights that your character can solo just
doing that. though, be aware that
Moonbeam won't apply most of the radiant
damage debuffs that you have because the
damage doesn't count as coming from the
actual character. It comes from a like
hidden summon that creates the moon
beam.
Then at level nine, it's back to cleric.
Uh giving us improved warding flare,
which combined again with all our
control effects and all the debuffs that
we're putting on enemies will let us
make our allies basically unhitable by
applying our warding flare to enemy
attacks against everyone in our party.
At level 10, we get cleric level seven,
giving us fourth level spell access. And
there's a couple pretty nice spells that
we get here as well. Guardian of Faith
and Wall of Fire are both great spells
just to have access to. You can block
doorways with Guardian of Faith. Enemies
will have so many penalties that they
won't be able to damage it, so it will
almost always do the full 60 damage on
the Guardian of Faith. More if you cast
aid to increase its health. Um, and Wall
of Fire just solos a bunch of
encounters, so getting that as a spell
that you always have access to is pretty
nice. Uh, normally I would prepare
banishment, but since this party has
easy access to banishment elsewhere, we
don't need banishment. So, the only
major spell that we get um to prepare
from our fourth level spells are the
ones that uh we come with and freedom of
movement, which is a great defensive
tool to snap an ally out of a stun if
they happen to get stunned. So, um
that's going to be the most important
spell that we get at this level.
Then at cleric level eight, um, we get
potent spell casting, which actually is
quite relevant for this character. Our
cantrips are really good because they
apply a lot of debuffs. So just doing a
little bit more damage with our cantrips
is actually really nice for this
character. And of course, we also get to
increase our wisdom up to 20. And
remember, we're adding the extra one
from either the item or Ethel's hair in
order to hit 20 wisdom with just this
one ASI. Finally,
at character level 12, we're taking our
ninth level of cleric, which mostly is
for destructive wave. This is going to
be the best thing that we can do when we
in addition to our um spirit guardians.
So, usually for this character, we're
going to be using a sixth level spell
slot on spirit guardians, uh if we have
one available or our highest level
remaining spell slot if we don't.
destructive wave to take out a bunch of
small enemies and knock everything
prone. Uh, and then usually you're going
to use a fourth level spell slot on aid
to cast it across your whole party in
order to boost your party's hit points.
So that's kind of the spell slot
management for the character. Your
highest level spells go to destructive
wave and spirit guardians. And then your
fourth level spell goes to aid and then
more copies of spirit guardians in
fights where you don't need the highest
level spell slot. Then you use your
lower level ones for utility. Of course,
we need to talk about this character's
items, though, so let's talk about
those. For items for this character,
this character's items are fairly set.
There's room for some variation, but
mostly you're going to want the same
items because this character is built
around a specific set of items that are
available in the game and using them to
the greatest possible extent. That item
set is the radiating orb and
reverberation combo of items. So, I'm
talking specifically about the luminous
armor, the gloves of belligerent skies,
the boots of stormy clamor, the callous
glow ring, and the coruscation ring.
This will allow you to apply radiating
orb, which reduces enemy attack rules
anytime you deal damage and anytime you
deal radiant damage. Um, since this
character does a ton of radiant damage
and a ton of spell damage passively by
running around with spirit guardians up,
you're going to be applying these
radiating orbs constantly. So, almost
every fight, enemies will have a minus
10 to all their attack rolls and
disadvantage thanks to larding flare.
So, uh, this combo of items, the
coruscation ring applies, uh, radiating
orb whenever you deal spell damage while
you're illuminated. Um, and since you
have light as a cantrip, you can always
be illuminated. The callus glow ring uh
does an extra two points of radiant
damage. It's not shown in the tool tip,
but this is radiant damage on all of
your damage sources. So, it's going to
work with all of our effects that care
about doing radiant damage, such as the
luminous armor. Whenever you deal
radiant damage, you apply radiating orb
in a 10-ft radius around you. Uh, and
then as you're applying those, you also
apply reverberation, which stacks saving
throw penalties on enemies up to five.
And then when they hit five, they have
to make a save, take some damage, and if
they fail the save, they become prone.
So all your enemies that are near you
are going to be stacking both of these
debuffs constantly and you can stack
them both to uh maximum in one turn with
character and they'll take a bunch of
damage get knock and even if they are
able to act they'll have a minus 10
penalty on their attack. So any enemy
that relies on attack rules is just
going to be debuffed to the point where
they can't do anything. So, these uh
boots, gloves, and um and armor are
always going to be used by this
character. In addition to that, we're
going to use Khaled's gift in order to
hit 20 wisdom. If you're using Ethel's
hair instead, uh you can go for a
different amulet. The spine shutter
amulet is pretty good for even more
reverberation on this character, or you
can use um Oh, I put it on a on the
other character. And uh you can use the
&gt;&gt; um whatever it takes.
&gt;&gt; You can you can use the amulet of
greater health here, which will give you
extra constitution and make you even
harder to kill. So, the spine shutter
amulet or the amulet of greater health
if you're using ethyl's hair colle's
gift if you're not. You also uh because
we have alert don't need the initiative
gear. So, we're just going to go with
save DC and defensive gear for the rest
of this character's items. For our
helmet, the hood of the weave is going
to be the best in slot, but anything
that increases your spell save DC is
going to be the most important thing for
this character. Uh, and for our cloak,
we're going to go with a defensive
cloak. Are other spellcasters going to
use the cloak of the weave? And this
character, enemies having disadvantage
on attacking you is great because they
have such high penalties that they're
always going to miss their attacks at
disadvantage. And it removes uh critical
hits as something that you're worried
about. We're also going to use um
Keather's shield for more spell save DC.
Another option here is also the
adamantine shield uh to prevent critical
hits, but I don't think it's necessary
because enemies will always have
disadvantage attacking you. So, we're
going to go for the more offensive
shield. Um and then for our bow, it
doesn't really matter what you have for
the bow, but I like the darkfire short
bow just for some damage resistances
since we're putting the hell rider long
bow on a different character. A couple
other items that are worth mentioning
for the early game. Nature's snare is a
really good staff in the early game for
this character. Um, we're doing a lot of
spell damage and we'll often be doing uh
we're doing a lot of melee attacks in
the early game with challe. So, we'll
often be ins snaring enemies with
nature's snare. The spell sparkler can
let you build up even more charges as
you do a bunch of spell damage with this
character. And of course, the staff of
arcane blessing is really good since we
have multiple spell attackers in the
party. You can buff your your whole
party up even further with the staff of
arcane blessing. But usually the items
that I have equipped here are the ones
that you're going to want. For a weapon
in the endame, the blood of Lethander
remains relevant throughout the entire
game. This character is also a great
carrier for Saloon's spear of night,
being able to use moonbeam and the
moonboat ability. So, if you do take the
story route that gets you Saloon's Spear
of Night, then um this is a a great
carrier for that. So, either of the two
sort of like glowy light side aligned uh
legendary weapons are pretty nice for
this character. You can never go wrong
with the blood of Lethander cuz the cast
of Sunbeam again will do radiant damage
and uh it sheds light automatically so
you don't have to have light up. Uh, and
the once- prong rest coming back from
having your hit points reduced to zero
will rarely happen for this character,
but it's a nice panic button when it
does happen. Finally, the last thing
worth mentioning for this character is
that in the early game, the buff on heal
items are pretty good for you. You can
stay in chalice form and use the
whispering promise, hell riders pride uh
and hell rider's pride in order to apply
um blade ward and bless to all of your
allies before you get the boots of
stormy clamor and the gloves of
belligerent sky or all the rings and the
gloves of belligerent skies which you'll
then replace these items with. But this
character's itemization is fairly set.
You're going to go for all the debuffing
items that make the character function.
With our second character, we're going
to finish the job that our first
character started and completely shut
down melee enemies entirely. Between
these two characters, melee enemies will
spend so much of their time disarmed,
disabled, and debuffed that they simply
won't be a threat to your party at all.
This character and our cleric make an
unstoppable wall of a front line that
enemies simply won't be able to get past
and both uh output great damage and
synergize extremely well. I'm talking,
of course, about the glaive master
fighter. This character works very well
because um with our cleric and with our
other party members because not only
does it provide a ton of control and
lockdown, it also outputs great
consistent damage, which we do need to
eventually kill enemies.
And uh because it's a sentinel-based
character, it's going to keep enemies
locked inside of our AoE control spells
and our spirit guardians that our cleric
is outputting. So, they won't be able to
escape all of the damaging effects that
they're suffering from. It also is going
to get constant free attacks because of
Sentinel and won't be taking any hits in
return thanks to its inherent lockdown
and all the debuffs on enemies. So, all
of the these effects synergize to make a
front line that enemies just won't be
able to get through. For our first level
with this character, we're going to be
taking a level of rogue. Um, this is
because we can get expertise in slight
of hand and have a character that's
great at lockpicking right away. We're
going to want rogue levels anyways. So,
this character having the uh skill
access for our party is going to be very
important. You should always have a
character that's good at picking locks.
And this character is one of the best
out there. For our ability score
selection here, we're going to be taking
16 in dexterity, 16 in constitution, and
then a slightly unusual split uh for a
fighter where we're taking 14 points in
charisma. This will make our
swashbuckler abilities land a little bit
more frequently. This character will
also be using one attribute item in the
late game. In the early game, you can
just use this uh stat spread alongside
one of the finesse long swords or one of
the other finesse weapons that you have
access to early game. Um, but later on
in the game, you're going to want to use
one attribute item because this
character is very feat starved. Uh, I'll
talk a little bit more about that later,
but you're either going to be using the
gloves of dexterity, the gloves of giant
strength, or an elixir of hill giant
strength in order to bump your stats up
to the highest possible values. For our
skill selection here, we are going to be
taking slight of hand expertise. This is
the most important thing and gives our
charact or gives our party an excellent
lockpicker. Uh, and we're also going to
be taking at least proficiency in
acrobatics. This character can easily
get pushed around otherwise thanks to
our low strength and being in melee. So,
acrobatics proficiency is very
important. In addition to that, uh I
like having expertise in stealth. It
just gives the character an alternate
way to play. And this party can have
multiple uh pretty strong stealth
characters in it. So that's another
dimension that you can have for um
encounters where it's good to roll
stealth. And then finally, um with our
last point, I usually just put this in
perception. Even though this isn't a
super high perception bonus, having your
character that's disarming traps and
picking locks have a bonus to perception
can help uh avoid accidentally wandering
into a trap without noticing it. That's
all the decisions we have to make at
level one. Let's go to level two.
At level two, we're immediately
multiclassing and we're going to take a
level of fighter so that we can get our
combat potential online as quickly as
possible. Uh for our fighting style,
we're going to be taking defense
fighting style. You can also take great
weapon fighting, but I like defense a
lot on this character because it gives
you a very strong synergy. It's also
always just good in general, but high AC
is particularly good in this party
because we're putting so many attack
penalties on enemies. High AC characters
will be almost impossible to hit. And
you usually want the enemy to target
your allies so that you can strike back
at them with Sentinels. So, this is not
only going to give us u just more
defensive capabilities, it's also going
to enhance our offense by making it more
likely that we get free attacks. So,
defense fighting style is very good. At
character level uh three, we're taking
our second level of fighter, which of
course gives us action surge, which is
even more early game damage. And then at
character level four with our third
level of fighter, we get our fighter
subclass. The subass that we're going to
take here is battlemaster fighter, which
is going to give us even more lockdown
and control because battlemaster
maneuvers will let us uh take enemies
out of the fight pretty easily. For our
maneuvers, we're going to be taking
precision attack. It's very important to
get precision attack on a battlem
fighter. Hitting your attacks is the
most important thing that you can do in
the game. So, the bonus to attack roles
is almost always correct to pick. Our
second two are a little more variable,
so I encourage you to play around with
this. But the ones that I recommend are
trip attack. Um, trip attack is probably
the best control effect here. or
disarming is also very good, but this
gives you advantage on your attack
rules, lets you take out enemies, break
their concentration on spellcasters, and
a lot more besides. And then repost.
Repost um gives you yet another way to
attack on the enemy turn. And enemies
now have no good options. If they attack
you, they'll almost certainly miss and
then you repost them uh hitting them. If
they attack your allies, you hit them
because of Sentinel. So, you're always
going to get a free attack on the enemy
turn with this character.
a character level four. We actually have
a choice here, and this is going to
depend on exactly how you've set up the
character. If you're using strength
elixir and using the early game
strengthbased pole arms before we get
the dancing breeze, the finesse pole
arm, again, more on this in the item
section, uh then I recommend taking
Sentinel and pole arm master as quickly
as possible. Um, if you're using the
finesse long swords and not using
attribute items until the late game,
then just taking great weapon master for
more damage is going to be uh the best
way to handle it. I'm going to go ahead
and suggest taking Sentinel right away.
You get your full synergies online. And
I think that using the strength elixir
in the early game is generally the
stronger way to build the character. So
that's the assumption that I'm going to
make. But there are some options in
terms of how you construct this
character. So, at this level, it's
either going to be sentinel, uh, in
order to just make more attacks and lock
down enemies even more, or great weapon
master, depending on which of those
routes you're going with your attribute
item. Basically, if you're using
strength elixirs, take Sentinel. If
you're not using strength elixirs, stick
with great weapon master for more
damage.
At fighter level five, of course, we get
extra attack. And then at fighter level
six, uh, which obviously is way more
damage. And then at fighter level six,
we get an additional feat. The other
feat that we're going to take here again
is going to depend on whether you're
using strength elixir. If you're using
strength elixir, we'll take polarm
master right away in order to get this
very powerful combo online immediately.
If you aren't, then you'll take
Sentinel, having taken great weapon
master previously. So here we're going
to take polarm master under the
assumption that you are using the
strength elixir. This way when an enemy
comes into range uh you get to make an
opportunity attack against them with
polarm master because this is a
long-ranged weapon they won't be in
their own melee range and sentinel will
stop them from moving when you hit them
with that opportunity attack which will
prevent them from attacking at all. It
will also, if they try to leave the
area, you can opportunity attack them
and prevent them from moving and they'll
stay stuck inside of the en of of your
allies spirit guardians. Uh, which
conveniently is now online as a full
combo because you're level seven. So,
the two characters have hit this major
power spike where enemies are locked
inside of the spirit guardians basically
permanently.
Having gotten that combo online, we're
now going to go back to rogue in order
to get even more control and lock down
abilities. At level two of Rogue, of
course, we get cunning action, hide,
dash, and disengage. These are a very
nice abilities that will let us position
this character more easily. This party
is very mobile thanks to having all of
the mobility rituals and um other
mobility tools. And this character being
able to keep up with your cleric who's
speeding around the battlefield
debuffing things with spirit guardians
is very important. So this is very very
helpful. And cunning action disengage
also has a cool item synergy that I'll
talk about in that section as well. At
rogue level three, we get to take our
rogue subclass. And the subclass that
we're going to take is swashbuckler
rogue. Uh, swashbuckler rogue does
require you to be using a finesse weapon
in order to use its uh maneuvers at the
at level uh four. Um, but we will be
able to get the dancing breeze, a weapon
that is both finesse and a glaive. So,
it'll work for both polarm master and
swashbuckler. At level three, we don't
yet have those abilities, but we do get
fancy footwork, um, which prevents
opportunity attacks against us anytime
we hit an enemy. So, we can reposition
the character even without taking
attacks. That won't matter cuz enemy
attacks will never hit against this
party. They'll be too debuffed. Um, but
can still be nice, but more importantly,
we get rakish audacity, increasing our
initiative. Boosting our initiative even
higher is very important for this
character. One goal of course of this
party is to have everybody go before the
enemy does so that they can't ever fight
back because they're too locked down. Uh
so the plus two initiative that you get
from swashbuckler is great for that.
Then at character level 10 we get our uh
swashbuckler abilities online and these
include flick of the wrist, vicious
mockery and sand toss. Now, Flick of the
Risk can only be used if you have a
finesse weapon equipped, which is why we
need the the Dancing Breeze Glaive um to
be both a polearm and a finesse weapon,
but will allow you to disarm enemies uh
and of course is extremely powerful as a
result um giving us yet another way to
shut down melee enemies completely. We
also get vicious mockery, which is an
okay ranged bonus action. You're usually
not going to cast this on this
character, though. you have better
things to do with your bonus actions uh
like make polar arm master attacks or
just jump. And then uh sand toss of
course can blind the enemy. Now the con
save for this is based on your charisma.
So enemies will often pass the saving
throw but blind is a pretty powerful
debuff. So even a small chance of
blinding can be very powerful um
especially against enemies that actually
have to make a lot of attack rolls. Uh
for our feat here, we're going to go
back and take great weapon master. This
character's damage does get a little bit
uh weaker in the late game without great
weapon master, but now we have so much
accuracy and we should be able to do so
much damage and we're always going to be
using a two-handed weapon at this point
that great weapon master just lets you
uh power up your damage significantly.
The plus 10 even this late in the game
is still a lot of additional damage.
Savage attacker is also a totally
reasonable alternative to great weapon
master. Usually great weapon master will
be more average damage, but if you put a
lot of bonus damage dice items on this
character, uh then savage attacker can
work as well. So either of these two
options can be pretty good.
Then at character level 11, we're going
back to fighter, which gets us two more
battlem
are pushing attack, still very useful uh
at this point in the game, and menacing
attack. This is just yet more ways to
debuff enemies and control them. Um,
menacing attack, frightening an enemy
can be very helpful. Again, shutting
down melee enemies even further. And
pushing attack works very well against
enemy like mages and stuff. You can just
punt them off of a cliff and then you
don't have to deal with them. And then
finally, at character level 12, we're
taking our eighth level of fighter and
we're taking a feat. And the feat that
we're going to take is alert. This
boosts us up to plus 10 initiative. So,
even in the most difficult encounters,
we're always going to go before the
enemies. You can uh swap out alert for
something else if you want to. If you're
using one of the gloves and not using
strength elixirs, you can use vigilance
elixir for the encounters where you need
those need high initiative. Um, and then
you can fit in both savage attacker and
great weapon master for more damage or
mobile for more movement speed, but
alert is usually going to be a great
default. So that's what we're going to
select for this build. In contrast to
our first character whose items were
fairly set in stone, this character's
items are very open for customization.
So this is where you're going to get to
play around with some of the fun items
that you really want to include in your
party. There are a couple things that we
need in particular. So first off, I
mentioned the dancing breeze. This is
always going to be our endgame weapon
because it is both finesse uh allowing
us to use our swashbuckler abilities and
a glaive. So it's a polearm. Um, so it
works with polarm master. Up until that
point, we have a couple directions that
we can go for our weapons. If you're
using elixirs of hill giant strength all
throughout the first act, uh, then you
can use any pole arm and take polarm
master and sentinel earlier like I
mentioned, the unseen menace is usually
a very good bet. This, uh, gives you
advantage on all of your attacks. and
then later the halbird of vigilance
because of course this is overall the
strongest pole arm in the game um up
until the act three um if you are not
using those. So if you intend to use the
gloves of dexterity or the gauntlets of
uh hill giant strength, ignore the name
here, it's an artifact of having spawned
the item in in this save. Um
then in the early game you won't be able
to use a pole arm because you won't have
a finesse pole arm yet. So you can use
the and you you won't have high
strength. Uh so you can use one of the
finesse long swords in order to still
have great weapon master and um attack
using your dexterity. These two are
Laurtheian's wrath uh which is um
overall the more damaging option for
this character or Faroo which can buff
your allies with the shriek ability to
increase your damage significantly. This
car character makes an excellent Faroo
car carrier uh up until act three. So
that can help increase your party's
damage output enormously in the early
game. So you're either going to be using
a strength elixir and one of these pole
arms or you're going to be using one of
the finesse long swords. In the late
game, of course, you're either still
going to be using strength elixirs.
You'll have switched to cloud giant
strength or you'll be using either the
gloves of dexterity or gauntlets of uh
hill giant strength in order to hit high
strength totals or high attribute totals
in order to actually land your attacks.
Overall, I think the most powerful way
is just to use the strength elixir, but
there are some other options for elixirs
like blood lust or vigilance if you want
to use one of the these items and you
don't have to remember to use a strength
elixir every day. If you're not using
one of these gloves, there are some
other really good glove options. In the
early game, the gloves of the automaton
will again give you advantage on a lot
of your attacks, um, which is very
helpful. And then in the later game, the
gauntlets of the wararm are great for
this character. Uh giving enemies
disadvantage on the saves against your
maneuvers and your weapon actions means
that you are very frequently going to be
able to land your battlem maneuvers um
causing enemies to fail their saves
against all of your control effects and
locking them down even further. In
addition to that, of course, we want a
decent set of medium armor. So in the
late game, this is going to be the armor
of agility, um which is just the overall
best set of medium armor for most
characters. And uh for this character
with its high dexterity works very well.
Um it's going to give you very solid
armor class and increase your saving
throws up until that point. Something
like the adamantine scale male can work
uh very well even though this doesn't
let you use your full dexterity for
armor class. It prevents crits and will
make you very tanky in the in the early
game um alongside all of your other
bonuses. In addition to those items,
this character benefits from anything
that increases its damage and anything
that increases its defense. So, I like
to put other AC and saving throw items
on this character, like the ring of
protection or the evasive shoes in order
to increase our defensive capabilities.
The helm of balddin is really nice for
you, giving you uh bonuses to a bunch of
relevant stats and preventing you from
getting stunned, one of the few ways you
can actually be uh affected by enemies
at all. So, the helm of Baldderin is
really great there. Finally, one fun
item I wanted to mention for this
character is the cloak of cunning broom.
Uh, you can disengage as a bonus action
as a rogue. And being able to create a
fog cloud just as a bonus action to no
save blind enemies that you were
previously next to is really cool. And
because you have sentinel, you can often
keep them locked inside the fog cloud
even though it's a very small radius um
by preventing them from moving so they
can stay blinded for multiple turns. Uh,
so this is just a really fun uh item
that I've really enjoyed using on this
character, but I highly encourage you to
use this character to play around with
cool items because your itemization is
so open. This is where you get to really
experiment in your run. For our third
character, we want to get as many
control spells as possible available for
our control party, as well, of course,
as utility and damaging spells. Um, and
what better to car character to do it
with than one that gets access to
basically every good spell in the game,
the Omniccaster. This character will
also be an incredible party face, so
it'll cover all of our out of combat
skill checks other than lockpicking and
give us access to every spell that we
don't have from our cleric. Um,
including ones from wizard and warlock
spell lists as well. So, we'll just have
every important spell available for this
character. We're going to be starting
with a level of bard. And that way we
can get our skills online immediately.
Um, for our bard cantrips, we're going
to be taking friends, which makes us
even better in dialogue. Of course, uh,
you can just leave the area after
casting this on honor mode and enemies
won't aggro if you're not there when the
friends times out. And we'll take minor
illusion because every party should have
access to minor illusion. This character
gets to have that um, and provides that
to our party. For our spell selection
here, we're going to be taking dissonant
whispers. Uh this is the best early game
combat spell for bards. Um we'll pick up
disguise self. Really nice to have this
utility again if you're acting as the
party face. So disguise self is just
really good overall. We'll also uh take
sleep because for the early game um this
is the strongest combat spell in the
game and then later on we're going to
swap it out as it loses relevance at
higher levels. And then finally we'll
take healing word. Always nice to have
this on a second character as well, so
that they can stabilize each other if
necessary. For our ability score
selection, we're going to be going with
an odd number again, but for a different
reason this time. We'll be taking 16
dexterity, 14 constitution, 10 in
wisdom, and 17 charisma. And then we'll
even out this odd number in charisma
using the actor feat. Uh which will also
get us expertise in performance and
deception so that we end up with
expertise in every dialogue skill making
this character the ultimate party face
in addition to providing incredible
combat power. Um we can do this because
we're using we're dedicating all our
initiative gear to this party member. Uh
so we don't need to take alert on this
character and we'll still be able to win
initi initiative for our skill
selection. Therefore, we're going to
take persuasion. Um, and we're going to
take intimidation. Deception and
performance you'll get for free from the
actor feat. So, you don't actually need
to spend skills known on these. You can
also take deception if you want it for
the early game and then respspec later,
but actor will give you skill
proficiency there for free. In addition
to that, we can put our proficiency in
acrobatics so that we don't get shoved
around. And then you can put it into any
of the intelligent skills that you want
to be good at. Um, typically religion is
the most important of these and so you
can get okay bonuses here. We'll also
have decent intelligence later on plus
jack of all trades from bard. So, we
should be okay at making these skill
checks in dialogue even if we don't put
uh proficiency in them. Our last skill
proficiency doesn't matter that much,
but getting higher religion will help us
with some endgame skill checks. Uh other
than that, we don't have to make any
decisions uh as a level one bard, except
of course we have to choose the right
starting instrument or you're going to
ruin your entire playthrough. So make
sure you don't get that wrong. And then
let's go on to level two. A character
level two. This character is going to
immediately multiclass and we're going
to take a level of cleric because this
character is going to be providing some
healing in the early game as a life
cleric. Um and this also gives us armor
proficiency and access to even more
powerful spells. Although we already
have a a cleric in the party starting at
level three, this gives us cleric
abilities starting at level two. So, we
get some very important cantrips. We're
going to get guidance. Uh so, we have a
second copy of guidance available. Um
and we get thr
even better as a party face. In addition
to that, we also get blade ward, which
is pretty nice for this character to
help defend itself. Um so, all of these
utility cantrips are very nice. our
spells from uh cleric and uh we only get
one uh spell prepared at this level. Um
but we're going to go with sanctuary
because a second copy of sanctuary means
that our characters can each sanctuary
if necessary, keeping our party alive
very easily. Uh we also do get two more
skill proficiencies thanks to the bug.
So again, you can put these into
medicine and history and just have
slightly better skill proficiencies, but
really we're here for the uh the utility
cantrips and access to all of the heavy
armor and everything that you get from
being a cleric and the bonus to healing,
which this character is very good at
providing healing and will make a great
user for the buff on healing items as we
trade them off of our other of our star
druid and other cleric on into the late
game. Character level three. We're going
to be multiclassing yet again on this
character and taking a level of wizard.
Um wizard of course can scribe any
scroll uh that you have. And it's based
on your total caster level, not your
total wizard level. So with three caster
levels, we have access to second level
wizard spells. While we only have eight
intelligence uh right now, we're going
to be using the warped headband of
intellect to replace our intelligence
with 17. Um and that'll be this
character's helmet for the entire game.
So, we will quickly be able to have
decent wizard casting in addition to our
excellent BIC casting. For our wizard
cantrips, we're going to take all three
of the major combat cantrips. We'll take
firebolt, ray of frost, and bone chill.
Um, and that way, we have a great uh
array of possibilities for our combat
attacks. Up until this point, we've just
been using uh crossbows um with our high
dexterity. Uh, and then for our wizard
um spell selection, this is going to
depend somewhat on what scrolls you've
found up until this point. The most
important one to take here, or the the
two important ones to take are find
familiar and shield, which you can't
find scrolls of. So, all of these others
you can learn from scrolls, but or all
the other most important ones you can
learn from scrolls. But find familiar
and shield you need to actually learn as
you level up. So, we're going to take
those with our first level of wizard,
giving us the best uh spell access. Um,
we only get one prepared spell at this
level. It's usually going to be shield,
but uh later levels we'll get more once
we get the warped headband of intellect,
we'll get more prepared wizard spells,
and we'll be able to prepare an array of
powerful wizard spells depending on
exactly which scrolls we found and what
we've scribed.
At level four, we're going back to bard
because, of course, we want to keep
improving our our bard levels. We get
Jack of All Trades, making us even
better at out of combat skills, and Song
of Rest, which makes our whole party
more durable and gives us more
longevity. For our spell at this level,
we're going to take Tasha's Hideous
Laughter. Uh, and we're also going to
replace Sleep um with something else. At
this point, you should have a good sense
of what your party really needs. So, you
can take something like Thunderwave to
protect yourself. You can take
featherfall. Uh you can take speak with
animals if you don't want to use the
speak with animals potions. Um I'm going
to recommend just grabbing thunder wave
so that you can push enemies away if
they do happen to get your front line
towards you, get past your front line to
you. At character level five, we're
taking our third level of bard. And of
course, we get to take our bardic
subclass, which is going to be lorebard.
This works extremely well with all of
our control spells and controlling
effects because cutting words uh can
both reduce enemy attack roles and
reduce enemy saving throws. So, you can
make enemies fail saves against your
powerful control spells or cause them to
miss in addition to the attack penalties
and disadvantage uh effect that you
have. Enemies will never land attacks on
this party. and any enemies that rely on
casting spells or using abilities,
you'll be able to force them to fail a
save against some debilitating spell
effect. So, you can use uh lorebard to
lock those down as well. For our spell
selection at level two, we already have
cloud of daggers from our wizard spells.
So, I'm going to recommend taking
enhance ability because uh cloud of
daggers you is the most important combat
spell, but you can get that from wizard.
Also, at this point, we're a fifth level
spellcaster, so we'll have access to
thirdle wizard spells, including again
some of the better control spells in the
game from scrolls. Enhancibility gives
us a nice uh utility spell that we can
use in order to pass important skill
checks even more. We also get expertise
in two skills here. So, we're going to
take expertise in persuasion and
intimidation, and then we'll learn
expertise in performance and deception
later on. And we get to learn three new
skills. So, we can go ahead and learn
all of the intelligent skills if we want
to. We can have another character be
good at perception or good at survival.
You can take animal handling, though
there aren't a lot of animal handling
checks in this game. Um, but mostly just
learning all of the knowledge skills is
going to give you even more ability uh
to pass dialogue checks with this
character. uh with the bug from cleric
and with the guild artisan background as
your starting background. You had
expertise in every dialogue skill,
proficiency in every intelligence skill,
as well as insight and medicine, which
are basically all the skills that are
ever ruled in dialogue. So, you're
always going to be able to pass skill
checks.
Character level six, we get an
additional cantrip here. Um, and so
we're going to take uh vicious mockery.
Just nice to have vicious mockery. You
can also pick up mage hand uh because it
it's good utility even this late in the
game. Um but vicious mockery is another
okay cantrip that can add yet another
element of control. So we're going to
add that in. Usually you'll use your
wizard cantrips but vicious mockery
comes up sometimes. We'll also take heat
metal. Um this is a spell that uh not a
lot of characters get access to but
again is even more disadvantage and
disarm. So yet more control available.
And for our feet, I already mentioned
that we're going to take actor, which
gives us both proficiency and expertise
in deception and performance. So now we
have expertise in every dialogue skill.
At bard level five, we get font of
inspiration, so we can use cutting words
even more frequently. And we also get um
we we also get third level bard spells.
Uh here we can learn plant growth. We've
already learned a hypnotic pattern as a
scroll from our wizard spells
spellcasting. So, we can use that u with
our wizard spells as well. So, we don't
need hypnotic pattern. But plant growth
is another control spell that this uh
party can have. It's non-conentration,
so it's always going to be extremely
relevant. We can also replace one of our
lower level spells, usually thunderwave,
which no longer uh we no longer really
need with glyph of warning for yet
another copy of a damaging and uh uh
controlling spell. This is just an
extremely versatile spell. So having two
characters capable of casting it is very
very nice.
Then at bard level or at character level
eight, bard level six, because we're a
lore bard, we get to choose two spells
from magical secrets. Now, this is where
we get counter spell. And I will say one
thing about this party that is um a
little unfortunate is that we don't get
counter spell until level eight. You
don't usually need counter spell before
level eight because this is where enemy
spellcasters get really dangerous. But
this is one of the few weaknesses of
this party is that uh this is your first
access to counter spell. Um is getting
it as a multi-class lorebard, so it's
somewhat delayed. That's uh the the
major downside of this party. Um other
than that, there really aren't any. Uh
in addition to counter spell, we're also
going to take hunger. Again, one of the
best control spells in the game, not
normally available to these classes, but
because we're a lorebard, we get to dip
out into other classes and take control
spells from other areas. For our spell
selection from bard, you can just grab
any utility spell that you're casting
really frequently. But hypnotic pattern
is still always good, even though we
know it as a wizard. Same with hold
person. Or you can grab a spell that you
don't normally get like lesser
restoration in order to just have more
access to a wide variety of spells,
things like um things that you can't
find as a scroll.
At character level 9, we're taking our
seventh level of bard and we get a
fourth level bard spell. There aren't
that many bard spells we're super
excited by, but I'm going to take
freedom of movement here. Um this gives
us yet another uh copy of freedom of
movement. So even if one of our freedom
of movement casters gets stunned, the
other can snap them out of it. So you
always have a backup for your backups,
um, which just makes this party
incredibly hard to take down.
Then at bard level eight, we get yet
another spell. And again, at this point,
it's going to depend on what spells you
found uh, wizard scrolls for, but you'll
probably be casting confusion pretty
frequently. So knowing this is a bard
spell can be very useful. and then you
can prepare a different spell with your
wizard spell levels. Same with cloud of
daggers. It's a it's all a very similar
principle. And then for our feet, we're
going to take an ability score
improvement to bump our charisma up to
20. We'll still be playing with 17
intelligence. So our bard spell casting
will be a little stronger than our
wizard spell casting. But because we're
stacking all of our safe DC items on
this character, um our safe DCs on both
types of spell casting will be more than
high enough that enemies will usually
fail.
Then at level 11, we're taking bard
level 9 and we get a fifth level spell
here. Here we're just going to grab hold
monster to keep locking down enemies.
Again, this is available as a scroll for
for wizards, but uh hold monster is
another one of the best control spells
in the game. So increasing its DC and
always having it available is great.
And then finally, at bard level 10, we
get our second copy of magical secrets
and just a bunch of other stuff from
Lorebard. So firstly, we're uh we get a
cantrip and we're going to take true
strike to annoy people in the comments
below. Uh and then for our spell
selection here, uh you can again just go
back and take any utility spell or any
spell that you're casting really
frequently that you feel like you need.
Fear is a good option. Cloud of daggers
is a great option. Um, greater
invisibility is a good option if you're
using that or standard invisibility,
hold person, any of those uh that you
find yourself casting frequently and
wanting to just always have prepared.
Uh, this will depend a little on your
play style, so I'll leave it more open
and up to you. For our magical secrets
here, we get conjure elemental. Um,
conjure elemental is again one of the
most powerful spells in the game. And
because we are a 12th level spellcaster,
we do have the sixth level slot to spend
on condra elemental. This character can
use an item that refreshes your spells
in order to cast condment and still have
globe of invulnerability available. And
then for your last spell, again, I
highly encourage you to just play around
with your last magical secrets
selection. There's a lot of really fun
options available to this character.
Misty step is always good, especially if
you aren't doing um illithid powers in
this run. It gives you more mobility. Uh
cloud cone of cold is a pretty good
non-conentration damage spell. And uh
having some non-conentration AOE damage
even at high levels can be pretty nice
for this character. Uh so there's a lot
you could also set them up as a second
spirit guardians caster to just run
around doing even more spirit guardians.
Um, so there's a lot of different
options and again I encourage you to
play around. I talk a little bit more
about the options in the full guide to
this character, but here I'm going to go
with cone of cold uh because even more
damage is going to be helpful for ending
fights quickly, especially because cone
of cold um as a constitution save is
going to be hard to resist for mages and
squishier enemies. Melee and attacking
enemies we don't care about. So blowing
up the mages is something that this part
is very interested in doing. Uh finally,
we get some more uh skill expertise. So
we can put expertise into religion to
make the endgame mirror skill checks
easier if you want that. Uh you can take
acrobatics to become impossible to shove
around. Or you can just take one of
these other skills that makes you better
at dialogue, something like insight.
That's it for the character. Let's talk
about items. Items for this character
are very simple. We have one required
item which of course is the warped
headband of intellect which will boost
our intelligence up to 17 from the
starting eight. This is available very
early in act one. So you should always
be able to get this item um and can cast
your prepare and cast your wizard spells
with your now 17 intelligence. Other
than that, the only things that we care
about in items for this character pretty
much are increasing our spell save DCs
and our initiative. Since we're not
taking alert, we need to dedicate at
least one or two pieces of initiative
gear to this character. The two best
ones are the Hell Rider Longbow for plus
three to initiative passively. It
doesn't matter that we're not proficient
with long bows. Uh we get the plus three
initiative passive anyways, and the
Sentinel Shield for another plus three.
Combined with our base plus three, this
puts us at plus nine initiative, which
is more than enough to go first in
pretty much every fight in the game and
have a good chance of going first in
even the fights against enemies with the
highest initiative out there. In
addition to our initiative gear, we just
want ways to increase our spell DC. All
this character is doing is casting
powerful control spells, uh either ones
that we learned from Bard or ones that
we described as wizard spells. And so we
just want our spell save DCs to be as
high as possible. For that reason, we'll
be using items like the cloak of the
weave that gives us a plus one bonus to
spell save DC. The robe of the weave,
which gives us a plus one bonus to spell
save DC. Uh with the robe of the weave,
you will want to use mage armor as well.
Um which will give you pretty decent
armor class in the end game. will have
20 or 21 AC depending on our exact item
setup in the end game. Uh which is not
incredible of course, but combined with
all of the attack penalties that our
party is providing and the fact that we
have cutting wards and warding flare
from our ally as well as shields on our
self, uh we should rarely take even if
enemies do somehow get to attack this
character, which they usually won't. Um
before you get the robe of the weave,
you can use any heavy or medium armor.
So, the adamantine splint or the dwarven
splint mail make great options in uh the
first two acts. The dwarfven splint mail
of course uh gives you you have heavy
armor proficiency from being a light
cleric. The dwarven splint mail will
give you decent armor class and high
constitution so you won't drop uh
concentration on your saves which of
course this character is always going to
be concentrating on spells. Um for our
ring uh we're going to go with the ring
of fay wild sparks. This is not shown in
the tool tip, but this does give you a
plus one bonus to your spell save DCs.
The tool tip here is just missing that
kind of important piece of information.
Uh, so this is going to be the best ring
for any spellcaster. And the amulet of
the devout for another plus two to our
spell save DCs. We're also going to be
using Maraheshir in the end game. This
is the best caster weapon in the endame.
And this character is just going to be
casting a lot of spells constantly. So
Maraheshir is great. also the ability to
refresh our spell slots. Of course, you
can pass it around between your
characters to refresh multiple, but
being able to cast both condramental and
globe of invulnerability uh in the same
adventuring day is really important.
Other than that, you have a lot of
flexibility with the remaining items for
this character. Uh I like in the glove
slot, the trouidor gloves are uh quite
good for this character. Extra uses of
cutting words is great. It just means
enemies will fail their saves against
your spells more frequently and you'll
be able to use inspiration and cutting
wards more often. Also, plus one AC is
always relevant. Um, for our boots, the
boots of striding are really nice.
You're pretty much always going to be
concentrating on a spell on this
character and so getting knocked prone
is something that you're very concerned
about. Um, so the boots of striding can
prevent that from happening and just
give you immunity to being knocked prone
or displaced. Very helpful. Uh, some
other relevant items for this character.
Mel's first staff is what you're
probably going to be using up until you
get Maraheshir plus one to spell safe
DCs. Um, starting in act one. So, it's
very helpful for a spell-casting
character. The whispering promise and
the hell riders pride or later the
reviving hands are also a great option
if you want the buff on heal items
throughout the endame. This character is
a great user for those. And since you
don't really have a specific uh need for
a second ring, you can easily slot the
whispering promise in and just get the
occasional buff. Even if you're not
using healing as your primary strategy
and carrying some healing potions so
that when you're concentrating on a
spell, you can always spend your action
chucking a healing potion at an ally and
triggering these buffs. Finally, the
hell dust gloves give you plus one to
your spell save DCs as well. You're
probably, if you have this item, going
to want it on the fourth character. Um,
but this is a good character to use them
as well. And the elixir of battle mage's
power increases your spell save DCs
again uh by giving you three permanent
charges of arcane acuity for the entire
long rest. So again, is going to make
you even better at landing your control
spells. With all of these boosts to your
save DC, even with only 17 intelligence,
it's very rare that enemies are going to
pass their saves. Also important on this
character is to look out for scrolls.
Um, some very important early ones are
Cloud of Daggers, uh, which is going to
be your main stay for your early game
combats, and it's also one of the best
spells for helping you get the warped
headband of intellect because it doesn't
require you to have high intelligence to
get uh, uses from cloud of daggers.
Haste is uh, an easy spell for this
character to cast. So, a scroll of haste
is very powerful as well. I like taking
Condra Elemental as a um as a magical
secret because you're always going to
want it prepared and you don't want to
use a a wizard spell prepared slot on it
always. Um but when you can learn it
from a scroll, it's also very good. So,
this is a very helpful scroll to have.
Globe of Invulnerability, one of the
most important spells to have in the
game, and again, this character provides
it. Uh and then keep an eye out for the
secret wizard spells as well. Dethrone,
Artistry of War, and the the Dava
summon. Though usually your summons are
your high level spell slots are going to
be for uh conjure elementals for the
Mermadons. Um but this character of
course can learn these wizard spells and
can make good use of them. Most notably,
artistry of war, which is just a very
very powerful spell. And finally, for
our fourth character, there's a lot of
directions you can go to fill out this
party. basically anything that does
consistent damage and also applies
lockdown that can especially take out
enemy spellcasters or dangerous ranged
enemies because melee enemies are so
covered um by this party. So something
like an openhand monk or a shadow monk,
uh a rogue that can get into the back
lines, a gloomstalker ranger, all of
these are totally reasonable options.
But the uh character that I found most
effective and synergistic with this
party is one that lets us set up our
hazardous effects on the ground. lets us
get close to enemies and lets us lock
down enemies while also doing incredibly
consistent damage every single turn. The
Arcane Archer, I think in general,
Arcane Archer is heavily underrated in
honor mode uh build guides. I think it's
one of the strongest characters out
there because the level of control it
provides while also giving you the
amazing damage output of an archer is
incredibly strong. So, um, we're going
to throw it into this party because it
has so much power level and so much
synergy with what we're already doing.
For our arcane archer, we're of course
going to start with a level of fighter
here. Um, and for our fighting style,
we're taking archery fighting style.
This obviously lets us hit with our
attacks more often, which is exactly
what we want. For our ability score
selection for this character, uh, I've
already got it set up here. We're going
to go with 16 in dexterity. Um, of
course we're an archery based character,
so we want to land our shots. Having
high dexterity is necessary and 16 in
intelligence. The arcane archer save DCs
on their abilities are
intelligence-based. So, you want high
intelligence when you're playing this
character. We'll also take 14
constitution and 12 wisdom. This gives
us adequate hit points and a decent
saving throw in wisdom. For our uh skill
selection here, again, we'll pick up
acrobatics. Um though this character can
also take athletics. You won't be great
at it obviously cuz you've got low
strength, but um not getting shoved
around is pretty good. It mostly doesn't
matter what you pick though, so just
take anything that you think your party
might be missing. And that's it for
level one. At character level two, of
course, we get our second level of
fighter, giving us action sturge for yet
more ranged damage. And then at
character level three, we get to take
our fighter subclass, which of course
we've already said is going to be Arcane
Archer. So, this gives us the arcane
arrows. And arcane arrows are awesome
for a wide variety of reasons, but one
of them is you just get so many of them.
Compared to battlem fighters, you get
way more uses of this ability. Um, and
the arcane arrows are incredibly strong.
So, we're going to be able to output
enormous numbers of these special arrows
and also the other special arrows that
you find throughout the game. We had a
krip here. Um, and so this doesn't
really matter. We already have guidance
and light uh covered from our party
members. So, we're going to go ahead and
take true strike to yet again annoy
people in the YouTube comments. And then
for our arcane shots, this is where we
have some interesting decisions. Well,
the first one, not so much. We're always
going to be taking banishing arrow.
Banishing arrow is a level four spell
that we get to cast as an attack, so we
can cast it multiple times per turn. It
targets the enemy charisma save, so
enemies will often fail it because a lot
of enemies have really low charisma
saves. And banishing an enemy for two
turns lets you focus your control on
other enemies. Let you kill everything
else before they come back. And also
lets you set up traps for them. Um, for
example, putting spike growth and hunger
of Hadar under where a banished enemy is
going to return means that when they get
back, they're doomed. So, this is going
to let us set up all of our other
control effects while also again doing
incredible damage every turn. For our
second arrow, we're going to take shadow
arrow. This will let us blind any
enemies that are remaining in the fight.
And blind again is a very, very powerful
debuff. And then for our third arrow,
we're either going to take seeking or
piercing. This is a little bit down to
personal preference. Uh, personally I
usually take seeking because it just
always hits and being able to pick off
low health enemies at long range is
really good. But if you feel like you
need a little more AoE damage than
piercing arrow can be very helpful as
well. Usually the dragon breath and the
um radiant burst from your cleric will
suffice for AoE damage, but piercing
arrow and uh seeking arrow are both
guaranteed sources of damage. So either
one can be really good. But here we're
going to take Seeking Arrow because it
always hits. It can go around corners.
So, it just gives you even more
consistent damage. One thing to know
about Seeking Arrow though is it doesn't
work with Sharpshooter. So, it'll be a
little bit lower damage than your other
arrows and less than it shows on the
tool tip irritatingly. Um, so you just
have to be aware of that when you're
casting this uh ability. At character
level four, um, we get our first feet,
of course, and the feat that we're going
to take is of course going to be
sharpshooter. Just like every archer
before us, we want to get our high
damage online as quickly as possible.
Um, and sharpshooter is enough damage
output that even with the um relatively
low damage rest of the party, which are
mostly focused on control and not on
pure damage output, this party will be
more than capable of killing enemies
quickly if you want them dead quickly.
This also makes this the perfect
character for taking out squishy mages,
especially, which since we're so good
against melee characters, we're so
indexed into destroying enemy melee
characters entirely. Being able to knock
out mages is the only thing we're
missing from the party. So, it's one of
the reasons why I really like the arcane
archer as an addition to the party.
Here, a character level five, we get
extra attack, which not only uh lets us
attack multiple times per turn for more
damage, it also lets us use multiple
arcane arrows in a turn for even more
control. So, it's even better for this
character than for other marshall
characters. And then at fighter level
six, we get an additional feat. And the
feat that we're going to go with here is
an ability score improvement to bump up
our dexterity. Obviously, we want to hit
with our attack. So, increasing our
dexterity as much as possible is exactly
what we want. Um, you can take alert at
this point as well if you find that
you're losing initiative, but as with a
dexterity based character, the plus4 to
initiative at this point should be
plenty. Most enemies don't get alert
until later acts. So, just boosting your
chance to hit is going to be the most
important thing at this point,
especially because we have sharpshooter,
so we want to hit with our attacks to
land our extra sharpshooter damage even
with the penalty.
At fighter level seven, we get uh magic
arrow and curving shot. So, we're going
to be able to attack even if we miss,
which is awesome. Um, and we get
additional uses of arcane arrow. We also
get to learn another arcane shot.
There's again uh any of the five arcane
arrows here I think can be pretty good
options. Um, but what I'm going to
suggest is that you take the uh infeing
arrow. Being able to make enemies feeble
means that even if by some chance an
enemy does land an attack, it'll only do
half damage. So again, enemies will just
not be able to perform meaningful
actions against you. But again, this is
kind of up to personal preference. I
think that all of the arcane arrows are
good and quite well balanced. Um,
honestly, this class is kind of a
triumph of design in that way and that
the all of the options are interesting
and good. Um, so you can really play
around with this and also feel free to
swap out your arrows as you level up uh
in order to experiment with different
ones. At character level eight, we are
going to get another feat. And of
course, we're going to simply increase
our dexterity up to 20 here. Um, again,
just making ourselves as consistent as
possible. This character is here to
bring just solid consistency to the
party. So, this is exactly what we want
to make sure that it's doing. we get to
fulfill that theme even further when we
take indomitable here. So again, we're
even better at saving throws um when
we're able to roll them. And if we do
happen to fail a save, it's usually
going to be against something that we
can be snapped out of with freedom of
movement or restoration from one of our
party members.
At character level 10, we get to choose
yet another arcane shot. And again here
there are um any of the four options can
be pretty good. At this point though
there's a decent chance that we're going
to be playing close up to enemies in
melee doing piercing damage using the
ballist armor in which case piercing
arrow is going to be very very strong.
I'll talk a little bit more about that
in the item section as well. Uh, so if
you're using the ballist armor for this,
you definitely want piercing arrow to be
able to to just blow up a whole group of
enemies um with the piercing damage from
that. Uh, but again, any of the possible
options here are very good. Um, and
being able to
uh deal a little bit more damage with
grasping arrow or deal AOE damage at
range with bursting arrow are still very
nice options as well.
Then at fighter level 11, we don't have
any particular decisions to make, but we
do get improved extra attack, which
again not only lets us just do more
damage, increasing our damage on a
typical turn by 50%. It also lets us
cast multiple arcane arrows in a turn
yet again, or special arrows that we
have in our inventory. So, we can banish
three enemies, blind three enemies, or
even more than that if we want to use
action surge in a given round. And then
finally, a character level 12, we get
our last feat. There's a lot of options
here, but usually you're going to want
to take alert. This just guarantees that
we go before every enemy, even in the
end game. So, plus 10 to initiative
means that the lowest initiative in this
party is plus 8. So, we'll always go
before pretty much every enemy in the
game, even the the fastest ones out
there. Um, some other options that you
can take if you uh for whatever reason
don't want to take alert. Um, you can
just boost your intelligence to make the
save DC's on your arrows better, though
we'll have ways to do that with our
items as well. Um, you can take mobile,
being able to move faster, of course, is
always relevant to an archer. Lucky can
make you even more consistent. So,
there's a few other options that can be
pretty good for this character. Usually,
though, alert is just going to be the
best one. That's it for the build,
though. Uh, let's get on to items. And
finally, for items for this character,
your items can once again be pretty open
depending on your route through the game
and exactly your preference in terms of
itemizing. So, this is another spot in
this party where you get to play around
and take items that you think are fun or
interesting or that you just haven't
tried yet. There are, of course, some
items that we're definitely going to
want. Obviously, we need a good bow in
order to play an arcane archer. In the
early game, you basically have two
options. You can either use an elixir of
hillgiant strength alongside the Titan
string bow. This is the highest damage
option and will stay the highest damage
option throughout the game, but this
character doesn't really need the
additional damage from the Titan string
bow. Um, your damage is honestly plenty
high already, and what you're really
concerned about is consistency. Another
option in the early game is the bow of
the banshee. Being able to inflict
frightened is yet more control that you
get basically for free and it will
happen constantly. You'll also be
constantly getting the bonus to your hit
chance, which again is going to let you
use uh sharpshooter even more
frequently. In the later game, the
deadshot is usually going to be the
best. This increases your damage by
improving your critical hit chance and
also of course gives you um a plus4
bonus to your chance to hit enemies by
doubling your proficiency bonus. So
means you basically never miss with this
plus two long bow. So the dead shot's
usually what I'm going to go with in the
end game. If you find that you're
hitting all your attacks anyways, this
character can also use Gunter mail
pretty well. Uh the deadshot is usually
going to be better, but this is one of
the builds where because um your hit
chances are usually good and you mostly
care about the secondary effects. Gunter
mail's bonuses are pretty nice and
guiding bolt uh the guiding bolt effect
giving you advantage on your attacks
against the target plus all of your
sources of blind and everything mean you
can hit these attacks and you can use
the cool legendary weapon here. Um, in
addition to that, so most likely you're
going to go with the dead chop, but
there's some room for experimentation.
In addition to that, uh, you are highly
incentivized to use one of the coolest
item combinations in the game, the snow
burst ring plus the Drakethroat Glaive.
This is going to let you enchant your
bow with cold damage using the great
drakethroat glaes uh, draconic elemental
weapon. So, you enchant your bow with a
cold damage boost. And then every time
you deal cold damage, you create an an
ice surface under the enemies that you
shoot with the snow burst ring. You can
make this even more devastating with the
winter's clutches inflicting encrusted
with frost, uh, which will give enemies
disadvantage on the dexterity saving
throws. So, you can add on to this
combo. It's not necessary. enemies will
fall over on the ice surfaces from the
snow burst ring very consistently cuz
they're based on your character's uh
spell save DC, which is going to be
based on your relatively high
intelligence and which will be boosting
in other ways. So, this combo lets you
set up even more control and just free
control surfaces every time you fire
your weapon. The other ways to boost
your spell save DC for this character is
the helmet of Arcane Acuity. Arcane
Acuity does work on Arcane Archer shots.
Um, so you're going to be increasing
your spell save DC uh for every one of
your Arcane Archer debuffs. So enemies
will rarely fail the save. This is
obviously incredibly powerful. But one
thing that's kind of fun about Arcane
Archers is that you get to use
Arcaneuity in a more fair way. Certainly
not in a fair way cuz this um this
effect is just so busted no matter how
you use it. Um, but it it is a little
more fair than on spells that become
irresistible and is kind of cool that
it's used on a character that it feels
much more thematic for. If you really
don't like the Arcane Acuity helmet,
then um some other cool options are the
diadem of arcane synergy. We're going to
be inflicting conditions constantly. And
so this just lets us increase our weapon
damage by our spell casting modifier,
which is plus three. So we'll just add
plus three to all of our damage with
arcane synergy. And of course, the
marksmanship hat is going to be the best
in slot in the early game and remains
relevant throughout the game. Um, plus
one deranged attack rules is just always
good. So, you could even wear this on
into the end game, especially if you
just like the high fashion that it
provides. For your armor, this character
um is going to use basically whichever
uncapped medium armor you aren't using
on your front liner. So, the armor of
agility is going to go on the front
liner. This character is probably going
to end up in the yuanti scale mail, but
there's a couple other cool options for
armors in the uh early game up until you
have 20 dexterity. The graceful cloth is
always going to be great. It's excellent
on any sharpshooter build. Um increasing
your chance to hit, of course, so your
sharpshooter damage increases even more.
Uh and it also lets you play from
stealth more, so you can play as a
stealth archer and have the low AC that
that the graceful cloth will give you.
not really matter in the end game. The
ballist armor can go on either this
character or on your glaive master
character. Um, typically I like it on
this character, but there are a lot of
people who don't like managing the
spacing for archers. So, you can put it
on the melee character instead. And
obviously this doubles all the piercing
damage that you're doing. So, if you're
finding that you don't do enough damage,
this will completely solve any damage
problems that the character has. Another
couple items that are cool for this
character, the risky ring, of course,
means that you're going to hit your
shots even more frequently. Always good.
The costic band is just some extra
damage on every single attack. So, is
always going to again boost your damage
output. Um, for your gloves, the Heldusk
gloves are also a great option for this
character, giving you plus one bonus to
your uh to your dam uh to your spell
save DC, which works on your arcane
archer abilities and increasing the
damage of all of your attacks. So,
obviously very good. The disintegrating
night walkers make excellent boots. You
don't have missy step by default, so
this gives you a little bit more
mobility. And in your melee weapon slot,
the knife of the under mountain king and
the bloodthirst dagger. Again, ignore
the title. It's an artifact of spawning
in the the weapon here. Increase your
critical hit chance. This combined with
the dead shot means that you'll
critically hit on a 16 or higher. So, or
a 17 or higher. So, you're going to be
critically hitting constantly um when
you are when you have all of these
weapons equipped or all of these items
equipped. And that will again increase
your damage even further, multiplying
the damage of your arcane archer shots.
Finally, even though you can't use them
in the same action as an arcane archer,
as an arcane arrow, the special arrows
that available in the game, like the
slaying arrows and of course the many
targets arrows and anything like the
arrow of ice for early ice surfaces give
you yet more options and give you a lot
of cool things that you could do in
combat in addition to choosing between
your arcane arrows. So, this character
again is very flexible in how you build
it. There's some items that are very
powerful. Um, but overall you get a lot
of optionality outside of your bow and
the snow burst ring draketh throw glaive
combo and the helmet of arcane acuity if
you want to be as powerful as possible.
You can pretty much do anything with
this character. So have fun with it. All
right, my friends. I hope that you've
enjoyed this look at one of the most
powerful controlbased parties in
Balders's Gate 3. And I hope you enjoy
locking down your enemies to the point
where they can't fight back. As always,
of course, if you've enjoyed the video,
then feel free to hit like and leave a
comment. Obviously, those things help me
out with the algorithm, so I appreciate
you taking the time to do that. Um, I
also want to apologize for not having
posted as much Balders's Gate 3 stuff
lately. I've been uh hitting Slay the
Spire 2 really hard. Um, so go check out
those Slay the Spire videos if you
haven't seen them. I've really been
enjoying the game and you might enjoy
seeing me play it as well. And of
course, you can subscribe to my channel
for more Balders's Gate 3 videos and
other strategy game analysis. Cheers,
folks.
