Hello my friends and welcome back to
another Balders Gate 3 full party
building guide for honor mode. Hope
you're all doing well. Today we're going
to be crushing our enemies with sheer
might with a party that has never met a
problem it couldn't simply punch its way
through. This party pulverizes
everything in its path, rolling over
opposition like a bulldozer, a
steamroller of impersonal ironclad
destruction. and it does so by using one
of the coolest, most unique, and least
used mechanics in the game. So, if you
want to crush everything in your path
without mercy and try something
completely new, this is the party for
you. Now, this is normally the part of
the video where I say that all of my
full party builds are intended to be
played through the game naturally with
no specific story choices, no
overlapping gear, and all the tools that
you'll need to explore the whole game as
much as you want and however you want.
That's still true for this one, but this
is definitely intended more as a party
for your second playthrough uh or
subsequent since we're going to be doing
something pretty weird here using one of
the more bizarre mechanics in the game,
the devil foil masks. So, if you're
completely new, I might suggest one of
my other full party guides. But if
you're looking for something fun,
different, and extremely powerful, look
no further. Before I begin, I do want to
take a quick moment to say thank you so
much to Kaznich for the two pound
donation, Apu Wagu for the $10, Johnson
Advocacia for the 15 Royale, Slam and
Jam and Otter for the $25, and
Christopher Blucer, Richard Kemp, and
James Medlock for becoming channel
members. Thank you so much, my friends.
And this was a tough batch, so I
apologize for my pronunciations, but I
really appreciate the support. It really
means so much to me. All right, let's
get crushing.
So, before we get into the builds
themselves, let's talk about the devil
foil mask. Because the whole purpose of
this party build is I've always wanted
to build a party around this item
because it's so cool, so powerful, and
sees so little discussion in terms of
Balders's Gate 3 character building. The
devil foil mask at first glance doesn't
look like much. It is a non-magical or
seemingly non-magical helmet with no
description other than some flavor text,
a placid smile, and cherabic cheeks. Who
knows what face once lay beneath? The
hidden property of the mask only appears
when you have multiple characters
equipped with it. So, we have Carlac who
has the devil foil mask equipped. no
effect currently, but when we have
another character wear the mask as well,
we're going to see that this Infernal
Legion buff appears on our characters.
When you have multiple characters
wearing the mask, whenever you uh are
within 67 ft of another character
wearing the mask, you gain plus one
strength and minus one to your mental
attributes for each other creature
wearing a mask in that radius. This is
pretty powerful. plus three strength to
your entire party for free is uh very
strong. And while most parties are not
going to be able to use this effect
because not every character in them will
be a strength character and some
characters will want high mental
attributes. So the minus three penalty
will be a pretty severe penalty if you
build a party around using this effect.
It's very powerful. Now, obviously in
Balders's Gate 3, if you want characters
that have high strength, the elixir of
strength do exist, but the devil foil
masks do have a real advantage over them
in that you can use another elixir like
a blood lust or vigilance elixir, and
also you get to skip the annoyance of
having to drink them every day. So, um,
the devil foil masks can still produce
an extremely high strength party with a
very cohesive theme that also has some
pretty powerful options. Even though, of
course, strength elixir are overall
going to be a better way to get high
strength, this is a very powerful item.
And if the strength elixir didn't exist,
you would see like half of all optimized
character builds being built using the
devil foil masks, as is if you look on
build forums or whatever, like twothirds
of builds drink a strength elixir every
day. Uh, and the same would be true for
the devil foil masks because plus three
strength is such a massive bonus um if
those strength elixirs didn't exist. So,
we're still getting an extremely
powerful effect out of it. A couple fun
subtleties with this item as well. There
are four of them that exist in the game.
I'll link where you can find them in the
description below. Um, so your entire
party can be equipped with them quite
early on in the game, giving you plus
three strength bonus well before you're
supposed to have that. Um, and uh if you
and the uh bonus actually isn't limited.
So if you play with mods that increase
your party size and uh want to spawn in
more devil coil masks. If you have 10
characters in your party, they can all
be getting plus 9 strength. The
character also doesn't actually have to
be in your active party. If I equip
Aarian here, you can see that the
infernal legion buff does apply. And in
the encounter that mirrors your party
where you fight copies of yourself, um
you'll all be getting plus seven to your
strength if your whole party has the
masks on. So some really fun
interactions with this item as well. All
right, let's talk about the builds. For
our first build, we're going to be going
with the centerpiece of our party, a
giant barbarian. The way to think of
this party is actually much more like a
modern military unit than as a
traditional Dungeons and Dragons party.
We're fighting in close formation and
every character has very defined roles.
In that context, this character is a
tank. And by tank, I mean a huge armored
vehicle with a gigantic cannon, not an
MMO character designed to take damage
from enemies. This character is going to
fight uh both excellently both at range
with its throwing weapons and in melee
if necessary. And enemies that prefer to
stay at range, you will just splatter
with your cannon, uh, forcing them to
engage in melee and come towards your
party members that want to fight in
tight formation.
Having this character uh, is also great
because it requires almost no
babysitting from the rest of your party
members, being extremely healthy,
extremely tanky, extremely
self-sufficient, and dealing a ton of
damage. So, it covers a lot of the roles
that we're looking to cover. and does it
even better because we're boosting its
strength and will therefore be the the
main damage dealer and centerpiece for
most of your combat strategy.
As always for these builds, I'm going to
be quickly going through the levels, but
if you want more detailed information
about any of the builds, I'll link uh
longer videos about each of them in the
description below. At first level, we're
going to be starting with barbarian. And
we're going to be starting with 17
strength, 14 starting constitution, and
16 starting dexterity. Uh because this
character just wants to be as powerful
as possible. 17 starting strength is
going to allow us to use our plus three
strength bonus from the devil foil mask
and additional strength that we get from
our feats to hit 22 strength. So, we'll
have higher base strength than most
other characters. If you want to give
this character the plus two strength
potion that you get in act two, uh this
is the character to use it on because as
a tavern brawler character, you use
every point of strength incredibly well.
Um so this character could have 24
strength in that case. We're going to be
uh taking 17 strength, 16 dexterity, 14
constitution, and nine starting wisdom
and nine starting intelligence. The
reason for this is that because we're
taking a minus3 penalty to each of these
attributes, uh, this will drop it down
to six. So, we're starting with odd
numbers in both of these. Um, since
we're taking an oddnumbered penalty,
this obviously gives us lower saving
throws, but we're going to use items in
order to make up for having lower saving
throws um, on this character, and the
high strength will more than make up for
that. for our uh skills. The only
important skill here is athletics
because being able to shove enemies
around is very important. This party is
not particularly designed to make skill
checks outside of combat. Instead,
you're much more of a smashing through
obstacles, uh like a wrecking ball type
of party, so we don't need to worry
about our other skills. That's it for
level one. Let's move on to level two.
At character level two, we don't have
any decision to make. One important
thing to know about throwing characters
is that with reckless attack, you can
still get advantage on your throwing
weapons if you make a reckless melee
attack um first. So, you activate
reckless attack, gain advantage on all
your attacks for that round, and then
with subsequent attacks in that round,
your throwing attacks will have
advantage. Just an important trick to be
aware of. Also, as always, you can use
this to manipulate aggro, cause enemies
to attack you. As a tanky barbarian,
that's often pretty good. Character
level three, we're going to be choosing
our subclass. And I've already talked
about which subclass we're taking.
Whoops. I've already talked about which
subclass we're taking. We're taking the
giant barbarian. This increases our
carrying capacity and get doubles our
damage bonus um from rage on throne
attacks and also increases our size,
allowing us to fill the role of main
battle tank even more effectively.
At level four, we get our first feat.
And of course, as with most throwing
builds, the feat that we're going to
take is Tavern Brawler. We're going to
boost our strength here. Now, this will
uh bring your strength up to an odd
number, but we're going to get another
single point of strength later on
because we'll um have plus three from
our devil foil mask. But because we're
increasing our strength and we're using
throwing weapons as our main weapons,
Tavern Brawler increasing our strength
bonus to hit and damage on our throne
weapons means that we will have 95 plus%
chance to hit on every one of our
attacks and do ridiculous damage with
all of them. With the AoE damage from
Nai, which will be probably our late
game weapon, you can see why I call this
character a tank and refer to its weapon
as a gigantic cannon.
At character level five, we get extra
attack and fast movement, doubling our
damage and making us much more mobile
thanks to our high strength. Our jump
distance is also incredible. So, we're
incredibly mobile when necessary with
this character. Though, be aware that
you don't want to get more than 60 ft
away from your party members or you're
going to lose some of your strength
bonus. But, if you have to, you have to.
And one of the good things about this
character compared to an elixir
character is that if you forget and just
move out of the radius or uh then it's
not anywhere near as bad as forgetting
to drink a strength elixir. You just
lose three strength and are still a
totally functional character compared to
just having your build stop working. We
also get boot of the giants which is
incredibly powerful in melee range.
Whoa, that's a weird uh tool tip bug
here. I haven't seen that number before.
the zero d20 plus 13 budgeoning damage.
I'm not sure why it's showing like that.
Um, but uh this will allow you to deal
uh damage with a bonus action when
enemies reach melee. And those enemies
will often be held still by our other
party members, allowing you to kick them
away and then forcing them to come back
for more sentinel attacks.
At barbarian level six, we get elemental
cleaver, allowing us to use any weapon
as a throne weapon. Now, we're still
going to go with throwing weapons in
general because most of the game's best
throwing weapons already have the throne
weapon property, but this also just
means that we deal an extra d6 damage on
every attack. Very powerful.
Barbarian level seven, we get feral
instinct, which is going to boost our
initiative bonus to a plus six uh
alongside our high dexterity, allowing
us to skip alert on this character. Um,
so we can still go first in every
combat. And then at barbarian level
eight, we get an additional feat. And
the feat that we're going to take here
is athlete. This will allow us to gain
additional jump distance, making us even
more mobile and effectively giving us
misty step every single turn uh for free
just by using our bonus action to jump.
And because we uh it's a half feet and
we get an additional strength, this lets
us boost our strength to 19, hitting 22
base strength or 24 with the additional
strength potion.
Then at character level 9, we get brutal
critical. A small increase to our
damage, but a relevant one. And at
character level 10,
we get the bonus action throw available
to the giant barbarian, mighty impel,
which we've already had boot of the
giants for a bonus action attack. And
our bonus actions can be used to jump,
which is also extremely powerful. But
this just basically gives us a third
attack in a round or more if we have a
speed potion or something like that,
increasing our uh number of attacks and
is of course an extremely powerful bonus
to our overall damage per round. Three
attacks in a round is 50% better than
two attacks.
At character level 11, we've already
gotten our main bonuses from giant
barbarian. Our bonus action attack is
why we stayed in barbarian for 10
levels. And so we're free to multiclass
at this point. Uh for our multiclass
level, we're going to be taking fighter,
which of course gives us a couple
different bonuses. The first of these is
the fighting style. Now, this character
is very likely to be in armor. And
you're probably going to be using the
armor of agility because it gives you
high armor class and bonuses to your
saving throws, which is pretty relevant
for this character that's taking mental
attribute penalties. The defense
fighting style will make you even harder
to hit. your other party members will be
in heavy armor. So, as the only medium
armor character, a little bit of
additional armor class will certainly go
a long way. Another option if you're
finding that you're playing this party
very closely spaced together, um if you
have them always next to each other, is
protection fighting style. You're going
to have a shield on this character and
protection fighting style is uh actually
pretty helpful for this character in
order to provide to give them a good
reaction. you probably won't be
provoking attacks of opportunity or
enemies won't be provoking attacks of
opportunity from this character very
often and you don't really have a
reaction a use for your reaction on most
turns. So protection fighting style
gives you something that you can do with
that turnover turn resource. So I would
recommend defense fighting style but
protection fighting style is very much
worth mentioning. And if you are
enjoying playing the party very closely
spaced together then this may even be
the better option.
Finally, a character level 12. We're
taking our second level of fighter and
of course getting action surge to output
even more damage on the first turn of
important combats. Action surging gives
us now five throwing attacks in a given
round, which is enough damage with high
enough accuracy that you should be
flattening all but the toughest enemies
with this character's damage alone, let
alone what the other three party members
are doing. That's it for the levels for
this character, but of course, let's
talk about items. For items for this
character, the items are both very
simple and also have the fun bonus of
mostly showing up very early in the
game. So, the character's full build is
going to come online very early. Let's
start with our weapon. So, of course, we
want a weapon with the throne weapon
property. While we can add it with
elemental cleaver to weapons, uh,
gaining the throne weapon property, once
we hit level six, up until that point,
we still want a weapon with the throne
weapon property. So, in the early game,
we're going to be using the returning
pike. Then, we're going to be switching
to the lightning jabber, which normally
doesn't have returning. Um, so it's not
going to equip itself back in your hand
after you throw it. But because
Elemental Cleaver gives the weapon uh
throwing and returning, the Lightning
Jabber becomes an excellent option as a
throwing weapon because it's going to
appear back in your hand. It does a lot
of damage and thanks to some bugs does a
lot more damage than it should because
the extra bonus damage is a damage
writer source, meaning that it's going
to apply multiple instances of some of
your damage bonuses like rage and tavern
brawler. uh in some scenarios.
Finally, in act three, we're going to
switch to Nyola for any fight where we
want AoE damage or back to the lightning
jabber if we only want single target
damage in that fight if you're fighting
in close quarters and the AoE damage
from Nai would be awkward to use, for
example. But Nai is usually going to be
our endgame weapon here as the best
throwing weapon in the game. In addition
to our throwing weapons, of course,
we're going to be using the uh throwing
ring, the ring of flinging, adding an
extra D4 bonus to all of our thrown
weapon damage. And since that's our main
way of doing damage, that's just extra
damage on every attack. For our armor,
we're going to be going with the best
medium armor available to us at the
time. This is our only character in
medium armor. So, whatever the best suit
of medium armor um available to your
party is, then uh that's going to be the
one this character uses. In the early
game, this will probably be the
adamantine scale scale male. And then
later on, the armor of agility has the
highest armor class and also gives you a
plus two bonus to your saving throws,
which obviously is very important to
this character with our low mental
attributes bonuses to our saves are
incredibly helpful.
Um,
for our uh secondary ring and glove
slot, we also get a cool synergy here.
So, because we're a giant barbarian, we
get to add an elemental damage uh type
of our choice to our weapon attacks. And
in this case, we're going to go with
fold as our damage type of choice and
use the snow burst ring. This will
create an ice surface every time we
throw our weapon cuz we're going to get
uh we'll be doing cold damage and
creating an ice surface under enemies.
If enemies walk on an ice surface, they
have to make a dexterity saving throw or
fall prone. Now, this does use your
character's spell save DC, which
obviously is incredibly low thanks to
our very, very low mental attributes.
But with the Winter's Clutches uh
gloves, when we deal cold damage, we're
going to be inflicting Encrusted with
Frost on the enemies, which gives them
disadvantage on dexterity saving throws.
Now, they still are not going to fail
most of these saves, but disadvantage on
even a very low DC save is enough that
enemies will fail sometimes. And this is
free crowd control that we're going to
get every single turn, multiple times
over as we throw our weapons. So, um,
this, uh, item combo allows a giant
barbarian to just get a bunch of crowd
control for free while also doing extra
damage. You also, of course, can double
the additional cold damage and the
lightning damage um, that you would be
doing with the lightning jabber by
getting enemies wet, so you can throw a
bottle of water at them uh, to trigger
that effect. It's not a huge increase to
your damage output, but it's certainly
welcome. For our shield, this character
is just going to be using the safeguard
shield. Increasing our saving throws is
important. What we don't want is this
character getting hit by hold person
type effects and getting taken out of
combat. So, the safeguard shield helps
with that. Um, and we can use the cloak
of protection as well in order to boost
our saving throws. For our helmet, of
course, we're using the devil foil mask.
And for our bow, I recommend the
darkfire short bow. While raging, we
already have resistance to uh physical
damage, so blooding, piercing, and
slashing. The darkfire shortbow bow adds
resistance to two more common damage
types, making this character very, very
hard to take down with its high hit
points, high armor class, and resistance
to a bunch of common damage types. Also
important is that we can use an elixir
on this character cuz we're using the
double foil mask. And the elixir of
blood lust is probably the one to go
with. We're going to be killing a lot of
enemies, so extra attacks are al are
always welcome. For our amulet, um you
can This is kind of dealer's choice.
There's a lot of different amulets that
you can use here. In the late game, I
like swapping this character to the
amulet of greater health, uh just for
even more HP and just make them
impossible to take down. If you do that,
then you can drop your constitution to
eight um by respecking and increase your
mental attribute slightly. Finally, for
your boots, again, the boots are
dealer's choice, but I like the bone
spike boots just for flavor here.
Increasing jump distance and adding
brutal leap to have yet another way to
crowdcontrol enemies and uh do um uh
ridiculous jumps that do uh really funny
effects, I think is is awesome. So, this
is what I like mostly for flavor. Um, if
there's something that you think your
party particularly needs from a set of
boots, uh, then you can add it to this
character, but boots are an open slot
here. All right, that's it for our first
character. Let's move on to our second.
For our second character, we're going to
be using a battlem fighter. Now, to mix
metaphors a little bit, if our first
character is a main battle tank, this
character is the grinding teeth of the
wood chipper we're going to be forcing
our enemies through. When enemies have
to approach our party, this character
will be ready, waiting, and willing to
destroy them. At our first level, we're
going to be taking our level of fighter,
and we're going to be taking defense
fighting style because this is a
sentinel character. Um, we want enemies
to attack allies instead of us so that
we can trigger Sentinel more frequently.
In particular, obviously, we want them
to attack the barbarian who is more than
capable of taking it. For this reason,
we're increasing our defense uh our
armor class with the defense fighting
style because then enemies are less
likely to target this character and
instead we'll be targeting our other
characters, allowing us to get free
attacks with Sentinel. For our ability
scores, we're going to be going with
again 17 strength and 16 dexterity
because we want high initiative. Um and
we're going to be picking up the same 14
constitution, nine intelligence, and
nine wisdom. Again, we're reducing our
mental attributes by three. So, uh,
having these odd numbers allows us to
still get an okay bonus without taking a
massive penalty. Once again, for our
skills, the only skill that really
matters is athletics because
um, this character will often want to
push and reposition enemies. If an enemy
gets adjacent to you, pushing them away
with a bonus action shove, of course, is
going to allow you to get another
polararm master sentinel attack on them
when they have to approach on a
subsequent turn. Other than that, you
can put your skills anywhere that you
think makes sense for flavor. Like I
mentioned, this party is not really
designed to pass a lot of out of combat
skill checks. We're much more about
kicking in the door and taking names.
All right, let's move on to level two.
At character level two, we're taking our
second level of fighter and getting
action surge, which of course increases
our damage output immensely, but we
don't have any uh actual decisions to
make. So, let's go on to character level
three where we get to take our fighter
subclass. I've already mentioned that
we're taking battlem fighter as our
fighter subclass. And for our maneuvers,
we're going to be using trip attack,
pushing attack, and uh precise and
precision attack. Um, this character of
course wants to land your attacks and
precision attack is excellent. Pushing
attack works extremely well with
Sentinel allowing us to shove enemies
away and then get uh or with polarm
master rather allowing us to shove
enemies away and then get an additional
polarm master attack. And trip attack is
excellent crowd control. The missing
piece here is repost, but since we don't
intend for enemies to attack this
character that frequently because we'll
always be adjacent to the barbarian who
will be soaking attacks for uh them,
repost is less important to have early.
At level four, we're taking our first
feat. And the feat that we're going to
take is polar master. We want polar
master and sentinel as quickly as
possible. And of course, one advantage
of the um of the devil foil mask party
setup is we're going to be getting
additional strength uh whenever we pick
up our devil foil masks. And so we don't
need to increase our strength early.
That means our first two feats can be
polar master and sentinel without
slowing down our damage and accuracy
progression, uh which normally these
characters can sometimes struggle with.
We won't pull our master over sentinel
early because the additional bonus
action attack is pretty good and with
pushing attack and enemies coming
towards us, we're going to get a lot of
opportunity attacks off of Sentinel. So,
or off of polar master. So, I think it
will usually provide more value than
Sentinel uh right at the beginning. Um,
if you have played a lot of these polar
master and sentinel builds and find that
you prefer taking Sentinel first, you
can switch the order of these two feats.
But I think that this is usually going
to be the smoother one. At character
level five, we get extra attack, which
of course increases our damage
significantly. Uh just as it always does
for every Marshall character. If you're
using Lazelle, as I am here in this
example, you also get misty step once
per day as I get the Yankee. The
additional mobility is very helpful for
this character, though later on with our
bonus action jump being massive thanks
to our high strength and the athlete
feet, uh we won't need this later on.
But in the early game, the extra
positioning that this provides can be
very helpful.
At fighter level six, as a fighter, of
course, we get an additional feat. And
the feat that we're going to take is
going to be whichever of polar master
and sentinel we didn't take initially.
As I mentioned already, normally for a
polar master build, the character has a
dilemma as to whether you want to
increase your strength in order to
increase your accuracy or take these
feats as quickly as possible. This
character because we're boosting our
strength at the devil foil mask bonus
does not doesn't have that dilemma. At
this point in the game, we'll have the
devil foil masks and have 20 strength
alongside polar master and sentinel and
be ready to make as many attacks as
possible.
At fighter level seven, we get two
additional maneuvers. And here we're
going to take repost, which is still
helpful for this character. Um, on turns
where you're not getting an opportunity
attack with Sentinel or with Polarm,
having Repost to provide an additional
reaction can still be very powerful. And
we're going to pick up disarming attack
as well. The other uh attacks here we
just don't need as much. Menacing attack
can be helpful for locking down enemies,
so you could swap out repost for that if
you think you'll never use it. Um, but
disarming attack is is very powerful for
this character because it can be used to
lock down enemies and they'll often run
to try to pick up their uh weapon that
you force them to drop, triggering yet
another sentinel attack. So, some very
helpful um options with disarming attack
as well.
At fighter level eight, we're taking an
additional feat. And the feat that we're
going to take here is heavy armor
master. Now, heavy armor master uh
increases our strength and so we're
going to hit 21 strength. But the again
with the devil foil mask providing three
bonus strength, we get to take uh these
we get to take two half feats and
benefit from both of those. Heavy armor
master is going to increase uh or is
going to decrease incoming damage to
this character since we're going to be
in heavy armor. usually the armor of
persistence. This character is going to
be almost invincible to enemy attacks,
assuming that you get attacked in the
first place. Having damage resistance to
just about everything and reducing
incoming damage means that the actual
damage that enemies deal after all of
our reductions is going to be extremely
minimal.
At fighter level 9, we get indomitable,
which is very helpful. Again, this
party's main challenge is dealing with
low saving throws thanks to low mental
attributes. So, indomitable gives us a
second chance at that. Now, our saves
will still not be amazing, though we're
going to increase them a little bit with
gear, but indomitable means that we are
less likely to fail important mental
saving throws. At character level 10,
as a battlemaster fighter, we increase
the size of our com of our superiority
dice and also gain two additional
maneuvers. The maneuvers that we're
going to take here are menacing attack.
Again, I mentioned how menacing attack
is pretty powerful already because it
can frighten enemies, locking melee
enemies in place. And we'll also take
goating attack. Um, giving enemies
disadvantage on attacking other
creatures is very powerful for us as
well. Uh, they will still often attack
our allies because our armor class and
damage reductions and everything will
discourage the AI from targeting this
character. But with goating attack, we
can give enemies disadvantage on those
attacks, reducing the overall damage to
our party significantly. So, between
being able to lock down melee characters
um with menacing attack or keep ranged
characters next to us with menacing
attack and being able to give enemies
disadvantage with goating attack, um we
gain pretty significant bonuses in terms
of crowdcontrolling enemies. Since this
party is all strength characters were
light on traditional crowd control, but
battlemaster fighter crowd control is
also extremely powerful.
At fighter level 11, we get improved
extra attack for a third attack in a
round, which increases our damage output
even further. And then finally, at
character level 12,
we get another feat. And the feat that
we're going to take here is also
athlete. Increasing our strength and
increasing our jump distance, giving two
of our party members effectively a bonus
action teleport every single turn is
very powerful. There are some
alternatives uh for athlete here. You
could lower your strength by one because
um you uh and just hit just accept that
you're only going to hit um
uh 20 strength on this character. So, if
you lower your starting strength and
don't take athlete, you can pick up
alert and not have to use initiative
gear on this character. You can also fit
great weapon master in for more damage.
Now, I haven't found that this build
really needs great weapon master. You
already have a lot of attacks at very
high strength doing a lot of damage
uh in general, and this party is so
damage focused that great weapon master
hasn't been particularly necessary in my
play testing. But if you want even more
damage on this build, it's certainly not
a bad pick. And uh if you want to do
that, you'll just lower your starting
strength by one. Athlete, though, gives
you even more mobility and lots of uh
more ways to position your party, which
is incredibly powerful. Having the whole
party jump on top of enemies and just uh
pound them into the dirt is just a
really great feeling, and that's what
allows it to happen. All right, that's
the levels for this character. Let's
talk about items. for items for this
character. This character's items are
also very simple and also mostly
available pretty early on in the game.
So, this character is another one that
reaches its full power potential very
quickly. Also, look how scary Lizelle
looks in this full get up. Uh for we're
looking for two things. We want to
increase our damage and accuracy with
our weapon attacks so that when we make
our reaction attacks, we hit locking
enemies out of range of our party with
the polearm sentinel combo and doing as
much damage with our off turn attacks as
possible. And we want to increase our
armor class so that enemies target our
allies instead of us, meaning that uh
we're going to get more of those
sentinel attacks. For that reason, our
weapon is going to be whatever our best
pole arm is at any point in the game. In
the early game, this is usually going to
be the unseen menace. Uh, and then in
the later game, the Halbird of
Vigilance, of course, we need to use a
pole arm because we're a polararm master
build. And the Halbird of Vigilance,
which with its bonus to initiative, is
going to make up for the fact that this
character doesn't take alert. And so, we
get to skip alert on two of our builds.
One's a barbarian, one uses the halbird
of vigilance and a piece of initiative
gear, which is great. Um, and that will
allow us to
get away with not taking alert and still
be able to go first in every combat.
We're also going to be using whatever
the highest AC piece of heavy armor we
have is. Um, in the early game, this is
usually going to be the adamantine
splint armor. And then in the later
game, the armor of persistence is the
best defensive heavy armor set in the
game. And so that's what we're going to
swap to. It also with its uh both of
these combine extremely well with heavy
armor master for five total damage
reduction reducing incoming damage
massively. We're going to also go with
um other items that increase our armor
class or effective armor class. The ring
of protection gives us saving throws and
armor class. The evasive shoes give us
armor class and the cloak of
displacement gives enemies disadvantage
on their attacks against us. Um,
combined with goating strike, they'll
have disadvantage on every attack and
disadvantage on attacks against us also
encourages them to attack our allies,
which again we want. Uh, the devil foil
mask of course is in our helmet slot.
For our gloves, we can go with any
damaging glove, something like the hell
dust gloves or lesser infernal uh
gloves, but the gauntlets of the
wararmmaster I like a lot on this
character. Of course, we're a
battlemaster fighter, so um giving
enemies disadvantage on their saves
against our maneuvers gives us a lot of
lock down potential. For our bow, uh
we're going to go with the Hell Rider
long bow because this character does
want increased initiative. This gives us
a nice plus seven initiative just from
items, which isn't bad at all and allows
us to not have to use a vigilance
elixir, so we can use blood lust or
something else. And then for our uh
amulet, this is an open slot, but the
amulet of misty step is fine for
mobility or you can go with anything
else that uh provides some utility to
your party that you are looking for.
Finally, for our second ring, this is
also kind of an open slot, but I've just
been using the costic band cuz doing a
little bit of extra damage is always
good. Also important with this
character, don't forget that you can
fire your bow. You do have 16 dexterity.
You have a plus one long bow. Um, you
have precision attack, which will let
you hit bow attacks. And so making
maneuvers at range is pretty important
and something that this character can do
if enemies aren't closing to melee
range. A lot of bow attacks, even if
they're relatively low damage, still a
pretty powerful option.
For our third character, to continue the
metaphor of a modern military, we need a
combat medic. Emphasis on the combat.
This character is going to be a
tremendous supporting and defensive
character using the buff on heal items
to keep our whole party in top fighting
shape, but also will dish out tremendous
burst damage to enemies that get too
close. So, an enemy who's forced to come
towards us by our barbarian throwing
stuff at them or locked in place by our
battlem can get blown up in a single
blow because we're using a paladin
cleric multiclass for enormous smiting
attacks. While this character has low
mental stats, we can focus on spells
that don't require us to have high
wisdom and still provide a ton of
support value to the party while also
dishing out enormous burst damage. Our
pallet, we're starting with a level of
paladin and our subass doesn't really
matter that much. Um, you can go with
any of the four or break your oath and
be an oathbreaker paladin and you'll
still be fine regardless of uh what you
go with. For a character that doesn't
intend to take many levels of paladin,
oath of the crown is usually the best
just because righteous clarity is so
incredibly powerful early and late. And
so that's what we're going to recommend
here. But you can go with any of the the
possible options. For ability scores for
this character, we're going to be going
with something very similar to our other
characters, except instead of taking uh
1714, we're going to be taking 1741 16
in strength, dexterity, and
constitution. The reason for this is
just that this character is often going
to be concentrating on spells. And so
having the extra point of constitution,
a few more hit points is going to make
them a little bit uh more easily able to
maintain concentration on spells. And
since we're taking alert relatively
early, we can get away with slightly
lower dexterity. If you want the extra
point of initiative for the early game,
you can also just swap back to the same
attribute score we've taken on other
characters. An alternative build for
this character if you really just don't
feel comfortable playing without a party
face is you can uh put 16 points into
charisma and take a more normal heavily
armored paladin attribute split.
Obviously this is going to lower your
initiative bonus a little bit. Um but
this lets you get away with grabbing 16
charisma and then you can put you can
pick up persuasion and just take the
devil foil mask off before you go into
dialogue checks. That's a totally
reasonable option and will get you a
character that's a perfectly capable
party face with high charisma and the
ability to uh take persuasion persuasion
and intimidation, excuse me, um as
skills known. Otherwise, just put your
points in athletics because having this
whole party capable of shoving enemies
is very powerful. For this uh version of
the build though, I'm going to be going
with the attribute split that I
recommended, but I wanted to mention
that there is the option to play this
party with a traditional party face if
that's something that you want to do.
At character level two, we're going to
immediately multiclass to get all of our
utility from cleric. And for our cleric
subclass, we're going to be taking war
domain cleric. You don't often see war
domain cleric show up outside of onele
dips just for the uh extra three extra
bonus action attacks per day. But for
this character, war domain cleric is
actually pretty nice to take multiple
levels of. We get a great domain spell
list for the party and it again uses a a
subclass that doesn't often get used. Um
which I really like for this party
that's already using mechanics that you
don't see that often. War Priest is very
powerful for us because for a paladin
cleric multiclass, the extra three bonus
action attacks will often line up with
being able to make two really powerful
smite attacks in a turn when you just
want to end a fight immediately. So,
it's a very synergistic combination. We
also get a decent spell prepared list at
level one. Shield of faith is a decent
allday concentration, though we'll
probably want to spend our early
concentration mostly on bless. Um, but
having shield of faith on our battlem
fighter can prevent enemies from
attacking it. And we're going to be able
to provide a bunch of utility with our
cantrips. For our cantrips, we're going
to go with resistance, guidance, and uh,
light. Light is just a great utility
cantrip as well. We'll be able to apply
blade ward using the buff on heal items,
so we don't need to actually select that
as a cantrip known. And of course,
resistance and guidance give us a lot of
options out of combat, which is still
relevant for this character. If you're
going with the party face version of the
build, takey over light um because then
you can gain advantage on intimidation
checks and be better at being a party
face. Now, one thing that's important
about this character is with our highly
negative wisdom, we only get one spell
prepared at this level, and we're not
going to get that many overall. Um but
here, we're just going to take bless.
Bless is the best level one spell. If
you cast this every combat, your whole
party is going to be extremely happy
with you. Uh, thanks to a glitch, we
also do get two extra skills. When you
multiclass into cleric later, they still
haven't fixed this. You get two extra
skills. This isn't particularly relevant
because this character is just not using
dialogue skills. Though, if you are not
using out of combat skills mostly,
though, if you are building the
partyface version of the character, the
extra skill proficiencies are certainly
welcome.
Other than that, no decisions to make at
level two. Let's move on to level three.
At character level three, we don't have
to change anything because we actually
don't get a new spell prepared here, but
we do get guided strike from war cleric,
meaning that our smite attacks are going
to land even more easily. Um, this again
extremely powerful.
At level four, we're going to take our
second level of cleric. We do want
access to second level spells, but more
importantly, we just want a second
prepared spell. Um, and remember, you
can swap your prepared spells out of
combat. It's uh something that you're
going to be wanting to do fairly
frequently for this character. Swapping
your prepared spells when you're not in
combat. If you're concentrating on uh
shield of faith, you don't need bless
prepared, for example, and can pick up
sanctuary or something like that. In
addition to bless here, um we are going
to pick up
uh our two uh war cleric spells. We get
magic weapon. Um, we're probably not
spending concentration on this cuz we
have better things to concentrate on,
but spiritual weapon is great. We will
often be bonus action casting this,
which can again draw enemies to attack
it or just provide some additional
damage. In addition to bless as a
prepared spell, we're going to pick up
sanctuary, a panic button um that is
extremely helpful to have if one of our
allies gets low. There's also obviously
a lot of cool tricks that you can do
with sanctuary.
cleric level four, we get an additional
cantrip selection. And here, um, it
doesn't really matter what we take
because our offensive cantrips are of
limited utility with our extremely low
wisdom. Uh, so you can pick up blade
ward for times when you are not applying
healing with the buff on heal items. Um,
or you can pick up bursting senue just
to blow up corpses for fun. We also get
an additional prepared spell. And here
the the spell that we're going to
prepare is healing word. Having
sanctuary bless and healing word. Of
course, healing word as a bonus action.
Even though it provides very little
healing thanks to our low wisdom, allows
us to provide the buff on heal items as
a bonus action. Mostly we're applying
those at this level with a standard
action by using a potion, throwing it on
the ground at the feet of our party
members um before at the beginning of
combat. Uh, but healing word can let us
reapply those buffs as well. For our
feet here, we're going to take alert.
Having this character go first and buff
our allies with the buff on heal items
is important in some combats. And of
course, we have taken relatively low
dexterity, so increasing our initiative
is very powerful.
With four cleric levels, alert and our
most important combat spell, our most
important utility spells available. Uh
we're now going to multiclass back and
take our second level of paladin to gain
access to smites. Paladin uh smite
spells are extremely helpful for this
character. Of course, it also is going
to let us prepare bless as a paladin
spell, which means we get an additional
cleric spell prepared, and that can be
aid. We can spend a level three spell
slot on aid in order to increase our
party's whole power level. And we get
access to level three spell slots
because we now have two paladin levels.
So, our smite attacks can now start
going off and be really powerful. You
can take the paladin level earlier if
you want this character to contribute
more damage. I found that having more
utility early on was more helpful. Um,
but if you're feeling light on damage in
the early game, shifting the paladin
level earlier is totally reasonable. For
our fighting style here, we're going to
take defense. Just like our other party
members, we really want high armor class
again so that the enemies focus on our
barbarian.
At level seven, we're back to cleric.
Taking our fifth level of cleric, we get
an extra prepared spell known. And here
um again, we we have bless as a paladin
spell. And so our default prepared
spells can look something like this with
aid. Uh, and we can also throw in mass
healing word for bonus action healing to
our entire party. Um, as a war cleric,
we also get spirit guardians, which
although enemies will almost never fail
the saving throw against it and take
full damage, spirit guardians is still a
very powerful option for this character.
And Crusader's Mantle also a pretty
reasonable option for this character.
So, you have a lot of choices of
different concentration spells uh that
you can spend your turn concentrating on
and get really good value from uh with
this character because we have such a
good spell prepared list, domain spell
list from war cleric.
At cleric level six, uh we get to allow
our allies to gain a plus 10 bonus to
their attacks with the war gods blessing
channel divinity ability, which is very
helpful. and we get an additional spell
prepared. Now, we've already got our
healing spells online. So, at this
point, you can start adding in more
utility spells. Of course, we want
sanctuary available as well. And
remember, we have bless prepared as a
paladin spell.
At cleric level seven, as a war cleric,
we get stone skin, which we're never
going to cast, but freedom of movement
makes a pretty good panic button for
this character. Um, remember that this
party does have some challenges with uh
mental saving throws. Getting stunned
can be a problem. So, having a character
that always has freedom of movement
prepared to snap them out of it is very
helpful. We also get an additional spell
prepared here. Uh, this one is more to
um whatever you find your party is
needing the most. I like having guardian
of faith to be able to block up even
more space cuz we're playing a polar
master sentinel build. So, guardian of
faith can help channel enemies into
that. You pick up silence to help deal
with uh spellcasting enemies. You can
pick up create or destroy water because
it's always helpful to have that
prepared.
Whatever you're finding your party needs
the most.
At cleric level eight, we get divine
strike, adding additional damage to all
of our attacks. And this character is
still going to be doing a lot of
attacks. Remember, we have very high
strengths and so we're going to be
hitting our attacks pretty frequently.
Um, and we want to increase that
strength as well. So, with our feet,
we're just going to take an ability
score improvement and boost our strength
up by two. This gives us 22 base
strength, so our weapon attacks are
going to hit extremely reliably. Um, and
enemies uh, and will be a pretty
significant damage contributor as well.
There are a couple other options for
this character. You can take Warcaster
if you're finding you're really dropping
concentration and just play with 20
strength. That's totally fine. You take
heavy armor master and boost your
strength by one and then reduce your
starting strength by one, still hit 20
strength. Um, and that will give you
more damage reduction. Those are both
totally reasonable options, but just
boosting our strength to 22 so that all
our smites hit really hard I have found
to be the best.
At character level 11, we get access to
our fifth level cleric spells. Um, and
are now a 10th level caster with fifth
level spell slots as well. Uh, and for
our there's nothing in particular that
we really want from our fifth level
spell slots. So, at this point, you can
start filling it out with other utility
that doesn't require you to have high
saving throws. Silence is good. This
character is also a pretty reasonable
just natural warding bond caster.
Casting this on our monk can be very
helpful in order to prevent them from
going down since they're usually the
squishiest party member and sharing
damage is good. Remember, enemies will
mostly be focusing on the barbarian. So,
warding bond can be very helpful. You
can also cast warding bond on the
barbarian as well. Again, to share
damage, you have a lot of healing output
with this character. So, splitting
damage across the party is very good for
that reason as well.
And finally, at cleric level 10, we get
divine intervention, which uh allows us
to summon the devotees mace, which is
also a great weapon for this character.
More on that in a second. And we get an
additional cantrip selection here. Um
this one's kind of uh irrelevant. So,
let's just assume that you've taken
Thetury if you're playing the party face
version of the build. Uh you can also
just take um uh blade ward in order to
have an emergency panic button, but
usually you're going to be able to do
get better value by using blade ward
with healing items. All right, that is
the levels for this character. Uh let's
move on to the items. For items for this
character, we again have a fairly
straightforward character build. Um,
I've already mentioned that this
character is going to be using the buff
on heal items, and so that item set is
core to keeping this party alive,
especially since we're going to be
grouped a little closer together than
some parties normally would be. The buff
on heal items are the whispering promise
ring. Whenever you heal a creature, they
gain the effects of bless. And then you
can sub out bless as a prepared spell
once you're applying this regularly. and
the reviving hands gloves in the late
game or the Hell Riders's Pride gloves
in the early game. The reviving hands
give you blade ward um and also work on
yourself. The Hell Riders Pride give
Blade Ward to all creatures uh healed by
you for two turns, but don't work on
yourself. In order to trigger these
effects, you're going to be using your
bonus action, healing with healing word
and mass healing word, and also potions
of healing. having your party group
together and just throwing a potion of
healing at the ground will trigger both
of these effects.
Um, in addition to that, we're also
adding the ring of salving to heal extra
hit points. We have low wisdom, so our
healing uh in terms of total amount
usually won't be very high, but we're
mostly here to provide the buffs, not
the actual healing itself. Um, and the
boots of striding to maintain
concentration on your spells. If you
want more healing output, the boots of
aid and comfort either before you get
the boots of striding or for throughout
the entire game can give you three temp
HP whenever you heal an ally as well. Uh
it's not a massive amount of additional
hit points, but not completely
irrelevant either. The boots of striding
though will prevent you from losing
concentration on your spells, which is
very very important.
Um, for our other uh items, the dwarven
splint mail is the best-in-class heavy
armor for this character. And again, we
want to be in heavy armor. Giving
ourselves extra constitution, of course,
increases our hit points and also means
that we're going to maintain
concentration on our spells more easily.
The devil foil mask is mandatory for
this entire party. And this character
gets the best shield that we have
available, whatever has the highest
armor class. In the late game, this is
going to be Vikonia's walking fortress.
Um, this again gives us a good reaction
and gives us advantage on saves against
spells. Meaning that because this is uh
the only character that actually has uh
or because this character has
proficiency in in wisdom saves, we're a
little less likely to fail wisdom saves.
And having advantage on those saving
throws from spellg guard is going to
give you some pretty decent uh ability
to pass saves, which is important
because this character also has freedom
of movement to snap allies out of any
saves they might have failed. Our weapon
we have a couple options for. This is
the character in the party that can most
easily carry far. And with our bonus to
hit from war cleric and the fact that
our attacks are mostly smites, we just
need to hit one big smite attack. Um,
Faraloo is an excellent weapon for this
character and we can use either uh
either Sing or Shriek to pretty good
value with this party. Keeping enemies
trapped next to us with the polarm
master and having them take extra damage
from shriek is good or sing stacks with
bless and is just a very powerful buff.
Another option for our weapon is the
devotees mace uh once we get access to
that from level 10 cleric because the
healing incense aura provides healing
every turn which works with all of our
healing items. So it again gives us a
lot of value and can help keep our party
alive even through the most intense
firefighting. Finally, uh for our cloak,
I like the cloak of elemental absorption
for this character. Um, one risk that
you have with this character is because
of your relatively low dexterity save,
you can just get blown up by a fireball
or flame strike or something like that.
And the cloak of elemental absorption
can help prevent that from happening.
Um, and just uh get rid of a big nuke
and allow your party to survive because
then you have the healing to heal them
up. Also, it's worth reiterating, you
really want a lot of potions on this
character uh so that you can throw them
at the ground. Remember, you can use a
potion as an action throwing it and then
still use a bonus action war cleric
attack in order to apply a smite.
Finally, for our last character, we
already have infantry armor and support
in our military engine. So, let's add in
a machine gun. This is a super fun build
that provides a lot of out of combat
utility and also does great damage and
also can suppress enemies, providing a
ton of crowd control. um and gets to use
again a subclass that you really don't
see used that frequently. We're going to
start with the level of rogue because
this charact this party of course wants
to be able to pick locks and disarm
traps. So starting with rogue at the
beginning is going to give us that out
of combat utility right away. For our
ability score selection here, we're
again going to go with or we're going to
go with 16 starting strength. We don't
need 17. Uh and we're going to go with
16 starting dexterity. Of course, this
is going to help with our armor class
and increase our ability to do all of
the out of combat skills that we want.
We'll take 14 constitution.
And then we'll pick up 11 starting
wisdom and nine starting intelligence.
For our skills here, we'll go with
expertise in uh slight of hand and
expertise in stealth. And we'll also
pick up athletics. You can take
athletics over acrobatics because this
character has really high strength and
so and they do the same thing. This
character also should have perception
proficiency. You won't be good at it,
but it's going to be your best option
for spotting traps, so might as well
pick up proficiency to make that a
little easier. Um, other than that, you
don't have any decisions to make at
first level. So, let's move on to level
two.
For our second level, we're going to
multiclass immediately and start taking
levels of monk. Monk benefits, of
course, from having extremely high
strength because you get to use tavern
roller uh highly effectively. And so,
this character is going to take monk
levels, getting bonus action attacks,
and doing even more damage. You won't be
making great use of unarmored defense
cuz you're going to have low wisdom, but
we'll just be playing an armored monk,
which is just going to wear armor
throughout the entire game and not
actually give up much for not using
unarmored defense. Um, and we won't
really be using dextrous attacks or
anything like that because we're going
to be doing our damage based on strength
since this whole party has really high
strength just like a traditional tavern
roller monk would be doing.
At character level three, we're taking
our second level of monk, giving
ourselves bonus action, step of the wind
dash, and step of the wind disengage.
Um, these are both extremely helpful
tools to give us a little bit more
mobility. What you're going to want to
do with this character is usually park
it right behind your uh barbarian, right
behind your other three characters,
which will stand in kind of a line in
front of it. The monk is the most
vulnerable in the early game. And so you
just want to protect it by putting your
other characters in the way. That way
when melee enemies try to go after it,
they get bonked by a sentinel attack or
a polar master attack.
At third level monk, this is where
things get kind of interesting. Now, we
can take any of the four monk subasses
here, and honestly, I think they're all
fine, but the one that I uh have found
works really well with this party
composition is actually way of the four
elements. You very rarely see this monk
class picked, but it has a couple unique
features that work very well with what
we're doing. Firstly, we have low
wisdom, which makes way of the open
hand, the normally most powerful one, a
little uh worse. And Way of Shadow we
don't really want because enemies are uh
it often requires you to teleport to
where the enemies are using your
teleportation and so you'll be out of
the 60 ft range. Way of the Four
Elements doesn't have those problems
because you have Fangs of the Fire Snake
giving you a a low ranged attack, which
is actually very relevant for this
character with a ranged melee attack, a
ranged unarmed attack, giving you some
pretty tremendous damage output at
medium ranges and letting this party,
which is based around uh grouping
together in a fortress, um dish out
punishment to enemies at long range with
throne attacks, at medium range with
fangs of the fire snake, and at close
range, of course, with all of your
damage. So, you get the grinding
inexurability of moving slowly forward.
In addition to that, we're going to take
shaping of the ice just cuz it's really
cool. It's a very unique effect that
summons an ice block. You can use it to
block doorways or climb up onto things.
So, it's mostly for out of combat
utility, but it it can do some cool
things in combat. Um, and the rest of
these spells are based on your uh
wisdom, have save DC based on your
wisdom, and also are worse than just
attacking with your fists or weapon. So,
we don't really need to take the other
spells with the exception of water whip.
Water whip is actually uh really cool
for four elements monk because unlike
these other four element monk spells
where the save DCs are based on your
wisdom and so enemies are your spell DC
and so based on your wisdom, water
whip's save DC is based on your weapon
save DC. In other words, the higher of
your strength and dexterity just like
your other monk abilities like stunning
strike. So, water whip can pull enemies
towards you or knock them prone um while
dealing pretty decent damage. It is a
little expensive in terms of key points,
but being able to pull an enemy into the
crushing uh grinding maw of this party
is actually very powerful. And water
whip is a very cool ability that works
pretty well even on a low wisdom monk.
At monk level four, of course, we're
going to be taking our feet. And you
guessed it, our feat is going to be
Tavern Brawler. Of course, we're a monk,
so uh we're going to increase our
strength, giving ourselves even more uh
damage with our unarmed strikes. And um
this, of course, lets us use our bonus
action, flurry of blows, even more
effectively as well. When enemies get
close, we can hit them with weapon
attacks. We can hit them with our
unarmed strikes depending on whether we
need the accuracy more or we need the
per hit damage a little bit more cuz
some of our weapons will do more damage
per attack than our unarmed strikes
will.
At monk level five, we get extra attack
which of course again increases our
damage making this character once more
uh machine gun. We're going to get at
this point four attacks per round, two
with our main uh action and then we also
get a bonus action flurry of blows. So,
as enemies get close to us, we get to
take them out. We also get stunning
strike. Obviously, extremely important
and very powerful. And this is one of
our ways to deal with problematic
enemies is just to stun them. This
character, the the difficulty class on
resisting this, of course, is based on
your strength. And so, enemies are going
to have a hard time resisting it. And
between having a medium-ranged attack
with fangs of the fire snake, a pole
with a water serpent, and the stunning
strike when enemies do reach us in melee
range, this character can actually solve
a lot of problems for the party.
One of the nice things also about taking
four elements monk is all you really get
as you level up is in improved unarmed
movement, which this character is going
to be armored, so we don't really need
that. and additional um spell access,
which we already have the three spells
that we care about from monk. So, we
actually get to multiclass after only
five levels of monk, whereas most
characters that take monk want to go to
level six at least. So, this character
gets to take a few more levels of other
things. Here, we're going to go back for
another level of rogue, gaining bonus
action, uh cunning action, hide, dash,
and disengage. So, we no longer have to
spend key points on that. And can also
hide with our stealth expertise. keeping
this character safe. You do still
provide your um infertile legion bonus
even if you're hiding.
And then at rogue level three, we get to
take our rogue subclass. And of course,
like every monk before us, we're going
to take thief rogue for an additional
flurry of blows attack every turn. Um,
this makes this character extremely
mobile with the uh bonus action hide
dash and disengage and also increases
our damage output massively, giving us
uh up to six attacks per round at this
point. More of course if we are using a
speed potion or something like that.
At uh rogue level four, which we're
taking next, we get an additional feat.
And here we have a choice. We can
increase our strength even further by
taking plus two more strength. Or if
you're finding that you're not winning
every initiative role, you can take
alert on this character. We do have
room. We have one more initiative item,
so you can take the sentinel shield on
this character if you intend to get that
item as well. And that will still give
you enough initiative plus six. Um,
alert of course is great in honor mode,
so it's never wrong to take this. But
given that we want to increase our
strength as much as possible and we're a
tavern brawler build, I'm just going to
take plus two strength here. Going up to
22 strength for this character. But if
you're losing initiative alert, totally
reasonable.
Then at character level 9. Oh, by the
way, we also um we don't take athlete on
this character cuz we have cunning
action dash. So, we just don't need the
additional jump distance. We'll use the
dash instead. Um, at character level 9,
we can multiclass again because we
already have everything we care about
from rogue and everything we care about
from monk. And so, we're going to take a
level of fighter here. Here, I'm going
to again take defense fighting style.
This character is going to be wearing
armor, light armor up to this point, but
uh now that we're a fighter, we can
upgrade to medium armor because we could
uh gain medium armor. But probably by
this point in the game, uh you'll be
thinking about getting the hell dusk
armor at some point soon. And this
character will want to wear the Hell
Dusk armor if you intend to get it in
this playthrough. So, it's either medium
armor or the Heldusk armor. Um,
but defense fighting style either way,
increasing your damage, uh, increasing
your tankiness.
Just really stumbled over my words
there. At level 11, we're taking another
level of fighter for action surge. So,
we can do up to eight attacks in a round
for mainhand attacks, whether with a
weapon or an unarmed strike. and also
for flurry of blows attacks. And then
finally, a character level 12. Again, we
have a lot of options for where we want
to go here. Um, but we're going to uh
just take a third level of fighter. One
thing that this party is missing, and
there's a couple of ways around this is
access to Longstrider. So, taking
Eldrich Knight in order to get
Longstrider, even this late in the game,
can be pretty powerful. You can also
just use a camp caster for this. Uh that
also gets you shield and magic missile
which could do some guaranteed damage
even though your mental stats are very
low if you already have long strider
access from something else. Um whether a
camp caster or uh I didn't mention this
on the character description but one
level of druid on the cleric is also a
totally reasonable way to get
longstrider. Um you can also take
champion fighter in order to get uh
increased chances of critical hits. This
character makes so many attacks that
you're going to get a lot of critical
hits with champion fighter. I'm going to
do the champion fighter build for this
guide, but I wanted to mention
Longstrider as specifically one thing
that this party doesn't have easy access
to. Eldrich Knight is one solution to
that, as is a druid level, as is a camp
cer. All right, that's the levels for
this character. And this is a really
cool um level split that you don't
usually see. Let's talk about its items.
items for this character are actually
very open to customization. So, I
encourage you to play around and uh use
different items, use fun uh utility
items that you haven't gotten a chance
to play with because this character is
very item independent. So, there's
actually a lot of different ways that
you can set it up. I'm going to show you
one way to build the character that I've
found very effective and which has some
really cool tricks associated with it.
Um, but there's a lot of different ways
and I encourage you to explore your
options. Firstly, you're going to want a
really high damage weapon. So, just a
really high damage one-handed weapon.
The knife of the under mountain king
makes a good early option here. Um, once
you get to act two, your best option is
probably going to be one of the chars
spears if you do this quest or one of
the the unique spears if you do this
quest. Char's spear of evening or
Saloon's spear of night are both
incredible weapons to attack with and
excellent for this character, just doing
awesome damage throughout the entire
game. Char's spear of Evening is
probably best in slot. Um, though, of
course, it requires a pretty specific
story choice, so not every build is
going to have it. You also are going to
want a decent armor set early on when
you only have access to light armor. Um,
this is probably going to be the
graceful cloth and you're going to be
unarmored while you're wearing that. And
then later on when you get medium armor,
you're going to transition to something
like the flame enameled armor, uh, which
gives you extra initiative bonus. very
helpful for this character, especially
if you didn't take alert and also
resistance to fire, bonus to saving
throws. Uh, extremely powerful in the
late game. Um, the Heldusk armor is
going to be your best option here, uh,
because it's going to give you the
highest armor class and give you a lot
of utility. Uh, and so this is and it
doesn't require you to actually have
heavy armor proficiency in order to use
it. So that this is the armor that this
character will be going with if you get
the Helldusk armor. Otherwise, the flame
enamelled armor is a totally reasonable
endgame armor. Another very uh
reasonable option for this character is
of course the ballist armor, especially
if you're using Char's Fear of Evening.
Piercing damage vulnerability is
incredibly powerful. It works with Nai
and the Lightning Jabber as well, and so
you're going to be able to set up
vulnerability to piercing damage um and
just allow your party to absolutely
obliterate enemies. I don't really need
to talk about how broken this piece of
equipment is, but this character makes
good use of it. So, ballist armor, um,
hell dusk armor, or flame enameled
armor, all totally reasonable options.
For your gloves, you are going to want
some damaging pair of gloves. To go with
the hell dusk theme, I've gone with the
Hell Dusk gloves and also the Heldusk
boots, which are pretty nice for
preventing forcible movement as well.
Um, but anything that allows you to deal
extra damage. There's a lot of gloves
that have extra damage on unarmed
strikes, which are great. The lesser uh
the flawed Heldusk gloves give you
damage on both your weapon and unarmed
strikes, which this character wants both
of. So, flawed Hell Dusk into Hell Dusk
is the uh progression I suggest. You
also are going to want the Sentinel
Shield. Uh because we didn't take alert
on this character, the Sentinel Shield
is how you're going to have enough
initiative to go first in a reasonable
number of combats. And the uh Deadshot
gives you a great passive on your bow
slot. This character, especially if you
did take champion fighter, is going to
make a lot of attacks and therefore get
a lot of criticals, which is a ton of
damage. So, the Deadshot increases your
damage output massively in that case as
well. Another fun option for this
character, and this is one of the cool
things that you can do here, is take the
Eversight ring as alongside
the cloak of cunning broom. Because we
have bonus action disengage from rogue,
we can activate cloak of cunning broom,
creating a fog cloud. We're immune to
the blind effect because of the
Eversight ring. And so this will blind
enemies and give us attacks, and they
don't uh get to do anything. Um, and
then they'll also often have to move
because of uh being in a fog cloud. So
they'll they'll be stuck in that fog
cloud and have to move, which can often
trigger sentinel attacks uh and polar
master attacks from our ally. Also,
moving forward, creating a fog cloud,
and then positioning our party right on
the edge of it is a very powerful thing
to do. To go with that, uh, the
shadowcloaked ring adds, uh, damage to
your unarmed and weapon attacks against
lightly or heavily obscured creatures,
which they all will be if they're in a
fog plot. So, this is a really fun
setup. Works extremely well with the
Char Sphere of evening as well. Um,
which also provides blind immunity and
gives you casts of darkness uh,
available as other options. If you're
doing that, you don't need the Eversight
ring and can go with the ring of
twilight for even more armor class cuz
you'll often be obscured as a result in
the early game. The wondrous gloves or
um I I forgot to put them in here, but
the uh bracers of defense uh if you're
using the graceful cloth can provide
extra armor class, which is very
helpful. Um you'll probably be using a
shield, so the bracers of defense mostly
won't come up. You'll just use a shield
instead. Uh, but this is an option if
you are going with a weapon set that
doesn't include a shield and a
two-handed weapon um early uh can be
okay like a a versatile weapon that you
use in two hands can be a reasonable
option as well. All right, my friends.
Um this is the monk build. So, I hope
that you enjoy that and I hope that you
enjoy this full party build. Uh because
this is such a fun build. It's so unique
and different and uses mechanics that we
don't use as well as a bunch of subasses
that you don't normally see used in a
way that I found really satisfying to
put together and really fun to play. So,
I hope that you enjoy it as well and I
hope it lets you uh facelessly steamroll
over your honor mode runs um with ease.
As always, of course, if you have
enjoyed the video, then feel free to
leave a comment and hit like. Helps me
out with the algorithm, so I appreciate
you taking the time to do that. And of
course, you can subscribe to my channel
for more Boulders Gate 3 builds and
other strategy game analysis. Cheers,
folks. I'll catch you next time.
