All right, my friends. Let me show you
just how quickly and how accurately this
character annihilates designated
punching bag, the oathbreaker knight.
Notice that we've done no pre-buffing
except this fire elixir I used just to
get rid of another elixir. Um, and we're
not using any damage boosts like far
aloo or the ballist armor. Though, of
course, if we were, then our damage
would be even more spectacular. We're
going to lead off by hitting him with a
booming blade in order to trigger war
magic. This, of course, also does a
bunch of uh great damage. actually did
minimum possible damage there. I think
we rolled double ones on the thunder
damage. Um, and then he's going to
hellish rebuke us back. We'll then leave
melee range, getting at least 20 ft away
so that we don't blow ourselves up when
we start throwing Nai at him. Uh, for
more single target damage, we could also
be using the dwarven thrower disguised
as a dwarf. Let's go ahead and throw Nai
here. And we've got a critical hit,
which of course does a million damage.
We're more likely to critical hit thanks
to our itemization. And then let's throw
again. That uses our first three attacks
which we get as a fighter. But we can
throw one more time because we used
booming blade and thus activated war
magic. So this next attack is going to
use our bonus action. Since we're a
fighter, we have action surge. So let's
go ahead and use that. And then we can
see if we can finish this guy off with
only three more attacks. There's one.
We've got yet another
another critical hit. And let's go again
and throw one more time. And the
oathbreaker knight is dead on the first
turn of combat. Every attack we made was
a 95% chance to hit except the first
one. Um, and with advantage, of course,
that would become even stronger. So,
this character just ends every fight
before it starts. Hello, my friends, and
welcome back to another Boulders Gate 3
character building guide. Hope you're
all doing well. Today, we're covering
one of the most powerful builds in the
entire game, the Eldrich Night Thrower.
This is, of course, an update video to
my previous video on this build. Because
when I did my list of the very strongest
builds in the game, the most powerful
builds in Balders's Gate 3, I rated this
one at number two overall, the second
strongest build in the game. And it got
even more powerful in patch 8. So, you
do the math. Even more than that,
though, it got more interesting to build
and more fun to play, as well as getting
a lot of cool new toys to play with. So,
I wanted to update it because not only
is this build incredibly powerful, it's
also just really cool and really fun to
play. This character does uh more damage
more accurately than pretty much any
other character in the game. Your
attacks hit incredibly hard and almost
never miss. And you do it all while
being harder to kill than pretty much
any other character in the entire game.
So, in terms of sheer consistency, this
is almost certainly the easiest build in
the game to win honor mode with. Before
I begin, I do want to take a quick
moment to say thank you so much to Haki
Karim for the 20 lev donation, Alexander
Stadola for the $5, Howard Can It Be 404
for the extremely generous $50, and Lipy
Wrath for becoming a channel member.
Thank you so much, my friends. I really
appreciate your support. It really means
so much to me. All right, let's wipe the
floor with honor mode. I'm using Lazelle
as the example character here because of
course this is a fighter build and she's
the fighter of the party and also
because Gith Yankee makes a pretty good
choice for this character. The once per
day misty step gives you even more
mobility and this character will have
tons of mobility, one of the major
advantages of playing it. So that lets
you double down on something you're
already really good at. If you're
building this as a custom character,
what race you pick mostly doesn't
matter. As a fighter, of course, we get
all of our weapon and armor
proficiencies naturally, so we don't
need those from our race. But there are
a couple that give you significant
advantages. Dwar is excellent. Their out
of combat invisibility lets you start
fights from anywhere on the battlefield.
And as a throwing weapon character, we
do way more damage when fighting from
high ground. So being able to invisibly
move there, not only do you get surprise
rounds, you also will do more damage if
you can position easily. Um, Halfling is
also especially excellent for this
character. really good for any
character, but for a throwing weapon
character, we will usually only miss
attacks 1 in 400 times. Halfling changes
that 1 in400 chance to a 1 in 8,000
chance, making you incredibly consistent
and making it a statistical marvel if
you miss multiple attacks in a fight.
Other great options include Gnome
because the advantage on mental saves is
incredibly helpful. uh it removes kind
of the only thing that you're still
worried about for this character and
wood elf for halfwood elf for the bonus
movement speed are always great options
as well. At first level, we're going to
be starting with a level of fighter. And
right away that makes us a very strong
combatant, which is worth mentioning
because one of the things that's so
great about this character is that it
has no weak points across the entire
playthrough. From level one through to
level 12, it's a strong character the
entire way. So there's no time when
you're waiting for the build to come
online or anything like that. And it
continuously gets stronger every single
time you level up. So you're always
going to be ahead of the power curve and
able to win fights very easily. At first
level as a fighter with Lzelle's
starting armor and a shield, you're
going to have 19 base armor class. And
we can increase that even further by
adding the defense fighting style for 20
base AC at level one before you add any
other bonuses. a lot of enemies simply
can't hit that, you know, cuz this is
after they patched out the romance
speedruns. Um, and so that just makes
this character extremely hard to kill
right from the beginning of the game.
There are some other fighting styles
that we could take. Great weapon
fighting, while it doesn't apply on
throne weapons, this character will be
making melee attacks sometimes, and so
you can get a little bit of extra damage
on those. and dueling fighting style
does have some bugs that allow it to
apply um to thrown weapon attacks, but
in general they require some
micromanagement and very specific gear
setups. So, personally, I don't think
it's worth it. So, we're going to take
defense fighting style in order to make
this character even harder to kill. For
our ability score selection, there are
two different ways that we can set up
this character's ability scores. Either
you can do an elixir build where you
take no strength and then drink an
elixir of hill or cloud giant strength
every day to replace your strength score
entirely, or you can actually take
strength. For this build guide, I'm
going to show you a build where we
actually put points into strength.
Because one of the great things about
this character is that we don't need to
use any gimmicks in order to be an
incredibly strong honor mode character.
But as a strength-based character in
Boulders's Gate, you can still get a
huge benefit from elixirs. So, I'm going
to show you both possible setups. For
the elixir version of the build, we're
going to be taking a very unusual
looking attribute split. So, firstly, of
course, we're going to drop our strength
down to eight cuz we're going to replace
this by drinking elixirs of hill and
cloud giant strength every day. And then
we're going to take 17 in dexterity, 15
in constitution, 14 in wisdom to max out
our wisdom save, and 12 in intelligence
for the same reason. These two odd
numbers might look uh weird, but we're
going to be evening those out with feats
at later levels. Another small thing
that you can do if you're doing this is
to take 10 starting intelligence, 16
constitution, and then respspec to this
attribute split when you hit level four
and get tavern brawler. That gets you a
couple more hit points for the early
game, so it can very much be worth the
respect. But this is the attribute
spread that you're going to end up on.
However, for the purpose of this guide,
I'm going to show you the nonattribute
splits, uh the non- elixir attribute
split. So, let's hop back to that and
max out our strength here.
Finally, for our skill proficiencies,
the only important thing is that you
have athletics. Um, because fighters
have perception available, you might as
well take proficiency in perception. Um,
obviously, Lazelle comes with athletics
by default, but if you're playing
another character, you might have to put
the skill here. Being able to shove
enemies is really important and
otherwise this character mostly won't be
making skill checks. So this is the only
proficiency that really matters. All
right, that's all the decisions that we
have to make at level one. Let's move on
to level two. At character level two,
we're taking our second level of fighter
and we get, of course, action surge.
Action surge is the best class feature
in the game pretty much. Um, and for
this character, of course, it's no
exception. it what it's what gives us
higher burst damage than pretty much any
other character in the game cuz it'll
let us make seven attacks in the opening
round of combat in the endame. Each of
which hits more accurately and for more
damage than the attacks of any other
character.
At character level three, we get to
choose our third fighter level and pick
our fighter subclass. Of course, we
already know what we're going to take.
The throwing focused subclass, Eldrich
Knight. Eldrich Knight gets us a couple
things and they're all incredibly
powerful for this build. Firstly, of
course, we get the weapon bond. Um, this
allows us to turn any weapon into a
returning weapon. So, when you throw the
weapon, it'll come back if you have
bonded with that weapon. That gives us a
couple more options for powerful weapons
that we can use as our main thrown
weapon, cuz not every weapon with an
effect when you throw it naturally
returns to your hand. But as an Eldrich
Knight, you can just make that happen.
We also get some spell casting. And the
spell casting that you get with Eldrich
Knight is incredibly powerful for
defending yourself and making this
character even harder to kill, as well
as increasing your damage output. Let's
start with our cantrips. So, for the
first cantrip, we're going to be taking
blade ward. Blade ward is excellent for
a character like this one who will be in
heavy armor for most of the game. A lot
of heavy armor comes with natural damage
reduction. Um, so like the adamantine
splint armor for example reduces
incoming damage by two. If you're taking
half damage, that half damage is applied
before the flat damage reduction. So it
means that this character is taking tiny
fractions of the normal amount of
incoming damage whenever you have blade
ward activated. That means if this
character needs to tank for whatever
reason, you have a great option to do
that. We're also an Eldrich Knight, so
when we cast a cantrip, we're going to
have war magic to get an attack in
addition to that cantrip. So that's a
great play pattern. If you need to spend
a turn just defending yourself, you can
cast blade ward and still make an
attack. The second cantrip is booming
blade. And this is what has really
spiked this character in power level
before it's already uh above its already
stratospheric power level that it had
before because booming blade lets us
make an attack which counts as casting a
cantrip. So we can trigger war magic
with eldrich knight. I'll talk a little
bit more about this when we get to that
point, but basically this means we get a
whole extra attack every single round of
combat. Every single turn, we get to
take one more attack than we could
before the patch. Uh thanks to the
existence of booming blade. It also, of
course, is just a very powerful ability
regardless. Lets us trigger a lot of
synergy items with the thunder damage.
It's very strong in the early game where
you can booming blade and then shove an
enemy away, then they have to take the
extra damage to walk back. So, this was
a huge upgrade to the Eldrich Knight
because of the existence of this
cantrip. For our spell selection, uh the
basic spell selection for the Eldrich
Knight lets you take any abjuration or
evocation spell. And the main goal here
is to avoid ones that have saving throws
or hit rolls. Um since we have only
eight intelligence, we're not going to
hit with those. So, we want uh spells
that buff us or make us stronger in some
way or don't require us to have high
intelligence in order to use. At first
level, the best ones to take are, of
course, shield. In combination with our
very high natural armor class, shield
will let us block even more attacks
against us. So, it makes this character
extremely hard to kill. 20 base AC, plus
five from the shield, plus any
additional bonuses that you have from
items or anything like that, and enemies
usually will not be able to ever land a
hit on this character. And then in
addition to that, we're going to take
magic missile. Magic missile has no role
to hit, doesn't require you to have high
intelligence, and any source of just
guaranteed damage is very useful um
pretty much throughout the game. In the
early game especially, this can be used
to finish off a couple lowhealth enemies
and make fights uh much easier in a
guaranteed way without rolling any dice.
So, it just makes you even more
consistent.
For our expanded spell slot, there's a
couple more choices. If your party does
not have enhanced leap or longstrider
elsewhere um in the party, then you
definitely need to pick these two
utility spells, it is very important to
have access to both of them. So, you're
definitely going to want to pick those.
Enhanced sleep especially is really good
with our very high strength to give us
effectively a teleportation every single
turn. If you do have enhanced sleep and
long strider elsewhere in the party, you
can take another spell. Something like
find familiar um can be very very useful
for the eldrich knight. Disguise self
we're going to want eventually because
that'll let us use the dwarven thrower
um which is a great weapon for us. So
there's a couple really solid options
here. But if you don't have characters
capable of casting these two definitely
take them. We're going to start with
enhanced sleep just because it's very
useful. Uh, Lazelle does get once per
day enhanced sleep as a githani, but you
still want to take it because it's a
ritual spell, so you can cast it all the
time, not just once per day. At level
four, we're going to be taking our
fourth level of fighter and getting
access to our first feat. The feat that
we're going to take here is, of course,
Tavern Brawler. This is a throwing
weapon character, and Tavern Brawler
allows you to double your strength bonus
um both to hit and to damage whenever
you throw something. So, we're going to
take our now 18 strength and add twice
that plus4 bonus to all of our attacks
and all of our damage. This means we
will basically never miss our attacks
and they'll do more damage than most
other characters. DND fifth edition, uh,
which is what Boulders Gate is based on,
has a concept called bounded accuracy,
which is basically the idea that your
chance to hit, um, should never be too
high or too low against uh, onle
enemies. And Tavern Brawler, the way
it's implemented in Balders's Gate 3,
completely breaks that principle and
means that you get just 100% chance to
hit in a lot of fights. So, um, it just
breaks the normal balancing rules of the
game and overpowers things, which is why
this character is so incredibly
powerful. We also get a spell here, but
since this is from our Eldrich Knight
spell list, it mostly doesn't matter
what we take cuz we're going to replace
it next level anyways. We can grab
protection from evil and good. It comes
up in some encounters in the early game.
Um, and all of these other spells except
mage armor have a hit roll, so we don't
have any use for them.
A character level five, we get extra
attack, which of course doubles our
damage output and is a massive power
spike for any marshall character. Uh,
and for this character in particular
means that in the opening round of
combat, we can do four attacks using
action surge. Since those attacks all
hit for ludicrous damage and almost
never miss, that means that most fights
you are starting by killing the
strongest enemy in every fight just by
throwing stuff at them until they die.
So, it makes every combat in the game
significantly easier. We also get to
replace a spell and we're going to
replace whatever we took last level
because when you replace a spell as an
Eldrich Knight, you can take one a spell
from the expanded spell list. So, it
lets you get the other of the two
utility spells, long strider and
enhanced leap that you didn't take if
you don't have another character who can
use those or take fine familiar or
disguise self. Um, if you do have
another character capable of casting
these ritual spells
at character level six as a fighter, we
get a bonus feat. And yet another one of
the things that's awesome about this
character is even though we have to take
tavern roller at level four and a lot of
honor mode characters want to take alert
as soon as possible because the feat
alert just is so good for honor mode
letting you win initiative against every
enemy in the game. Removing surprise
rounds when those come up. Um so you
will just always be able to start fights
by killing the most threatening enemy
before they ever get to take a turn. Uh,
this character needs to take Tavern
Brawler, but still doesn't have to delay
alert too many levels because we get to
grab that at level six. So, we're going
to take Alert. And now we will win
initiative in every combat and open
those combats with action surge and four
attacks to kill the most dangerous enemy
in the combat right away. Meaning that
we almost never have to face whatever
the most dangerous enemy in any given
combat is. At character level seven,
we're taking yet another level of
fighter. And this is where the huge
power spike that this character got from
patch 8 and the existence of booming
blade comes into play.
The at fighter level 7, at Eldrich
Knight level 7, you get war magic, which
lets you make an attack as a bonus
action anytime you cast a cantrip.
Previously for throwing focused Eldrich
Knights, this was not a significant
increase to their damage output and was
an ability that you would mostly ignore.
Um, but Booming Blade completely changes
that because it lets you cast a cantrip
that's also just an attack. So, you're
not giving up any damage or giving up
very little damage when you trigger war
magic. So, now this character can make a
bonus action attack every single turn as
long as we're able to cast booming
blade. Previously, the way that you
would build this character is take a
level of cleric and pick up war domain
cleric, which three times per day lets
you make an attack as a bonus action.
That was a pretty big burst uh damage
increase, but it meant that when you had
used those three attacks per day, you
either had to long rest or give up a lot
of damage output. And in later rounds of
combat, you wouldn't have your bonus
action attacks. Now that booming blade
exists, we don't need to take that
cleric level and can instead trigger
this war magic bonus action attack for
an extra throw every single turn. So,
this character has basically gained one
whole additional attack every single
turn of combat starting at level seven
because booming blade now exists in
addition to all the other advantages
that that awesome spell gives you. We
also at Eldrich Knight level 7 get
access to second level spells. Now,
these aren't that impactful at this
level, but will be next level when we
get the expanded spell list. Um, but for
our level two spells here, we're going
to be picking up darkness. Even without
the ability to see through magical
darkness, this still has a lot of
utility in various fights in the game.
Um, you can still stand in it and be
immune to ranged attacks and you can
manipulate the AI with it when you
understand how to use the spell. You
also, of course, have the option of
equipping something like the Eversight
Ring to gain blind immunity and do all
the normal darkness abuse tactics. Our
second spell doesn't really matter.
We're going to replace it next level
anyways. So, let's go back and grab
protection from evil and good so it can
can continue ping-ponging in and out of
our spell list. Unfortunately, you can't
replace a spell here with a level two
spell uh yet. We won't be able to do
that till next level.
At fighter level 8, we of course get
another feat and also get an expanded
spell pick and the ability to replace a
spell. So, a lot of big boosts at
fighter level 8. Let's start with our
expanded spell pick. And here we're
going to take Misty Step. This character
has tremendous mobility, but Misty Step
is still a pretty nice pickup. Um,
anytime that you need to be able to get
to high ground, this can give you the
option to do that. Lets you escape
combats that are going badly really
easily. Obviously, Misty Step is one of
the best mobility options in the game,
so makes sense to have it on every
character that possibly can. We're also
going to replace whatever spell we
picked last level with another level two
spell pickup. There's a couple options
for the second one here. Invisibility is
really solid utility, so that's always a
good option. Um, you can take that.
Magic weapon is a pretty nice one as
well. Since this character is making
some weapon attacks, magic weapon you
can cast on your own weapon and use that
pretty regularly. So, that's what I'm
going to select here. Though either of
those two make pretty good options.
Finally, for our feet, there's a couple
different choices that we have, but one
of the great things about not having to
take the war cleric level is that we
actually get another feat to play with.
Of course, we can just take an ability
score improvement and boost our strength
up to 20. But we can actually use u all
three of the attribute boosting feats on
this character, get to 20 strength, and
get all of those benefits. And I think
that that's really cool to be able to
do. So on this character, we're going to
take athlete and boost our strength up
to 19. And then later on, we're going to
fix that odd number. Now, of course, if
you want to maximize your damage, you
can take the ability improvement for
strength and then respspec to grab
athlete and heavy armor master at level
12. Um, but just for the sake of the
demo, we're going to be just taking
athlete here and boosting our strength
up to 19. At level nine,
ninth level fighter gives us
indomitable, which is really awesome for
this character. The only weakness of
this character basically is that we have
relatively low mental saving throws. We
don't have proficiency in intelligence
or wisdom saves and our attribute scores
are very low in wisdom. So, enemies can
hit us with effects like hold person and
stuff like that pretty easily.
Indomitable gives us effectively
advantage or and actually even better
than advantage because it works with
advantage on all of those mental saves
and other saves as well. Um making it
significantly harder for enemies to lock
us out of the fight, especially in
combination with saving throw boosting
items, which is what this character is
mostly going to itemize for. So this
removes one of the only remaining
weaknesses of the character, making it
uh almost immortal under most reasonable
circumstances. enemies just can't do
anything to you, especially before you
kill them given how powerful and
accurate your damage is. You also can
replace a spell at this level. Now, our
spell list is pretty good, and there's
nothing that we really, really want. So,
you certainly don't have to replace a
spell. But if you find that you're not
using magic missile at this point, which
is very possible cuz your weapon attacks
are so much better than magic missile
now. you can replace it with a utility
spell. Something like find familiar,
invisibility, or of course, disguise
self are very useful. So, we're going to
pick up disguise self here because this
is about when you probably get the
dwarven thrower and want to be able to
disguise as a dwarf in order to use that
weapon uh when you want to use it.
At fighter level 10, we get Eldrich
Strike, which prior to patch 8 was
mostly not an important ability for
Eldrich Knight throwers because it
doesn't apply when you throw a weapon at
an enemy. But since this build is
intending to make a melee attack pretty
much every round of combat, we're going
to be applying Eldrich Strike very
regularly. This is a big deal for a
couple of reasons. The first is that
Eldrich Strike's tool tip is wrong. It
says when you hit a creature with a
weapon attack, it has disadvantage on
its next save against a spell you cast
before the end of your next turn. But
that's actually not true. It's
disadvantage on any save that you cause
that creature to make before the end of
your next turn. So any saving throw that
the Eldrich Knight inflicts on an enemy,
they'll have disadvantage on. That
includes things like weapon actions, uh,
items, illithid powers. So, the maim
attack from Nai or the great set of
weapon actions from the dwarven thrower
which can knock enemies prone um give
daz them or I think give them weak grip
all have saving throws and enemies will
have disadvantage on those. So, you can
actually use the cool weapon actions
from your weapons um very efficiently
when you have Eldrich Strike. The other
reason is that this is a condition that
applies to enemies. So anything that
triggers when you apply a condition such
as illithid powers, such as uh
reverberation stacks and stuff like that
can be applied with Eldred Strike as
well. So it is a very powerful tool to
be able to actually make use of and this
character gets it more or less for free
on top of all the other things that
we're doing. In addition to that, we
also get a cantrip selection. And of
course, we're going to take true strike
to annoy people in the YouTube comments.
And then for our spell selection here,
it really doesn't matter what we pick.
These uh spells from the Elder Tonight
spell list are just not that important.
So, we're going to replace whatever we
get. Uh let's take protection from evil
and good so it can continue to ping pong
in and out of our spell list.
At fighter level 11, we get improved
extra attack, which of course is again
an extremely powerful upgrade, giving us
three attacks every round of combat,
plus a bonus attack for more magic. So
four attacks every single round of
combat without using any resources. And
then of course, if we use action surge,
we get three more attacks for seven
attacks on the opening round of combat
and then four attacks every round
thereafter. just more attacks than
almost any other character is capable
of. And we can do it turn after turn
after turn for more damage and more
accurately. We also get an additional
spell selection here. Mostly doesn't
matter what we pick. And then we're
going to replace whatever spell we took
at a previous level with one of the
utility spells that I've already
mentioned. In this case, uh let's go
ahead and grab invisibility. Another
option also is to pick up hold person.
This character can use Arcane Acuity um
and Elder Strike in order to land hold
person pretty effectively. I don't
recommend it cuz the Arcane Acuity stuff
is better used on another character, but
that is an option that you have even
with only eight intelligence. Uh you can
boost your save DCs to where enemies
still can't pass the saving throw. And
finally, at character level 12, we get
to take another feat. And the really
cool thing about this build and the fact
that we get four feats is that we can
now take heavy armor master, which also
increases our strength and gives us even
more damage reduction. At this point in
the game, we will have um probably the
armor of persistence to take half damage
from most attacks from enemies. And
combined with heavy armor master, the
two flat damage from the armor of
persistence becomes five flat damage uh
reduction. Meaning that almost any enemy
attack is going to be reduced by 2/3 or
so in terms of how much damage that you
take. When you're only taking a third of
the damage that any enemy attack is
doing, and you have really good hit
point values, really high AC, are
playing at range, so you're very hard to
hit, this character becomes nigh
impossible to kill. So, getting to
combine all three of these plus one
strength feats is actually really nice.
Now, of course, this isn't the only
option, but it's one that I really like.
Um, but if you instead of taking the
bonus mobility from athlete and damage
reduction from heavy armor master, want
to just take plus two strength at level
eight, you do get a couple other options
for your level 12 feet. You can go with
dual wielder to benefit from the
passives of a weapon like the knife of
the under mountain king. uh holding that
in your off hand while throwing with
your main hand um can give you plus one
to your crit chance. So is a pretty
strong benefit to your character as
well. Uh and a feat like lucky can make
you even more consistent or mobile can
give you some additional mobility. Tough
is also a totally reasonable option. So
there's a couple other options, but the
way that this character gets to hit 20
strength while also getting all of these
great benefits, I think is particularly
cool. And one of the great things that
you can do, another option also if you
take plus two strength is to still take
the war cleric level. Um there are times
when it's not practical to get a bonus
action attack by using a booming blade
attack cuz you just can't get to melee
and the bonus action throws from war
cleric can still be useful in that case.
Uh, I should also mention that of course
if you're doing the elixir version of
the build, then you will have put the
plus one from athlete into dexterity to
hit 18 dexterity and the plus one from
tavern brawler into constitution to hit
16 constitution. I didn't mention that
at the time, uh, which maybe I should
have, but if that's how you're building
the character, then those are where
you're going to want to put those stats
rather than into strength, which of
course would be wasted. All right, my
friends, that is the Eldrich Knight
Thrower. probably the easiest character
in the game to get an honor mode win
with. So, I hope that you enjoy running
around with it and flattening honor
mode. But, of course, we can make it
even stronger with appropriate items.
So, let's talk about those. Four items
for this character. This character has a
bunch of different item options, but
mostly they're geared around increasing
our damage and increasing our
survivability. One of the great things
though is that although this character
has a lot of items that boost its
damage, they're mostly not ones that any
other character wants because they're
specific to throwing weapon characters.
So, you really won't compete for items
with uh the other characters in your
party as much as you might expect from a
pure damage focused character. Let's
start with weapons. So, we want uh a
weapon that has this property, the
throne weapon property, because that's
what allows it to do its full weapon
damage when you throw it at an enemy.
There are four main weapons that you
need to pay attention to uh as you
progress through the game. The first
good throwing weapon that you're going
to get is the returning pike. 1d10
piercing damage um and it returns to you
whenever you throw it is with a plus one
weapon is a really nice early game
weapon. It's going to be the first
weapon that this character is going to
be looking for in act one. Later on,
you're going to get the lightning
jabber, which does additional damage.
And on lower difficulty settings, this
is especially powerful because the extra
1d4 lightning damage on difficulties
other than honor mode counts as a damage
rider source, which if you don't know
what that is, don't worry about it. Um,
but the TLDDR is that it will add your
damage modifiers more times than it
should and do way more damage than it's
supposed to. So, on tactician difficulty
or below, the Lightning Jabber does a
lot of damage. Even on honor mode, it's
still going to be your best in slot uh
as soon as you get it. Finally, in act
three, there are two choices for
throwing weapon. the dwarven thrower,
which is your best choice for single
target damage because a dwarf throwing
this Warhammer does an extra 1d8
budgeoning damage. That counts um if you
are disguised as a dwarf. We have
disguise self, which is a ritual spell
that lasts all day. So, you can disguise
yourself as a dwarf and use the dwarven
thrower in order to do the highest
single target damage output in the end
game. And then for AoE damage, any fight
where you care about hitting multiple
enemies and just is the best sort of
default weapon, there's Nyola, which
does AoE damage exploding whenever you
hit an enemy with it. Since we're doing
seven attacks in the opening round of
combat, that uh 3d4 thunder damage is
going to add up to a tremendous amount
of AoE damage, and it's a pretty big AoE
in a 20ft radius blast. um as well as
giving you additional movement speed and
jump distance so you become even more
mobile and a bunch of other great
utility options as well. So your endgame
options are the dwarven thrower combined
with disguising yourself as a dwarf for
single target and nya for AoE damage. In
addition to your weapon, there are two
main items that are specifically
dedicated to increasing your throwing
damage. And of course, we're going to
want those. The first of these is the
ring of flinging, an extra D4, a bonus
to your throne damage. So obviously
incredible for this character. And the
second is the gloves of uninhibited
Cushigo, which is also an extra D4
damage with thrown attacks. Again, on
lower difficulty settings, these items
are bugged and will add your cavern
brawler damage multiple times. So you're
going to get even more damage out of
them. But even on honor mode, an extra
2d4 damage on every single attack you
make is excellent and is going to
increase your damage output enormously.
In addition to those, we also want other
items that boost our damage per attack
because we're making so many attacks.
And the natural pick here is just the
costic band. Adding two acid damage on
your throne um weapon attacks. It does
work on throwing weapons. It means that
you're dealing an extra 14 base damage
when you're doing your burst damage
turns and then an extra eight damage
every turn thereafter. So, it increases
your damage output pretty significantly.
An alternative to the costic band is the
callus glow ring. if you want to do
radiating orb stuff with this character.
Usually that's going to be better on
another character. So the costic band is
going to be better for us, but it is an
option that you can use. Finally,
another ring worth mentioning is the
Eversight ring. We do get access to
darkness. So you can do darkness
shenanigans if you're immune to blind
through this or the hell dust helmet or
another way to get blind immunity.
That's an option for this character as
well. In addition to that, we're going
to focus on boosting our defenses
because again, another great thing about
this character, we don't need that much
dedicated to offense because our damage
is already so high. So, we can also make
the character much more stable by giving
it amazing defensive items as well.
We're going to take grab a shield for
additional armor class. The sentinel
shield is excellent. If another
character needs this, don't worry about
it. this character's plus eight
initiative is fine, but um plus 11
initiative means you'll go before almost
every enemy in the entire game 100%
guaranteed. So that will make your honor
mode run even smoother. Another great
alternative is the adamantine shield to
become immune to critical hits and
remove yet another possible threat. Uh
so those are great options for your
shield. This character can also just get
away with any shield that the rest of
your party doesn't need. Uh you don't
need a specific one. So, um, the shield
can be more of an afterthought when
you're equipping this character. For
your armor selection, the adamantine
splint to remove critical hits and
reduce incoming damage is going to be
the best in the early game. And then
later on in the game, you're going to
continue to upgrade to other good heavy
armors. The armor of persistence, of
course, is the best endgame defensive
armor, and this character can make use
of it incredibly. So, that's going to be
your best in slot defensive armor.
Another option worth noting in the end
game is the ballist armor. This can be
worn either by this character or by
another character in your party. Almost
all of our weapons that we're using are
piercing. So the returning pike,
lightning jabber, and nyola all do
piercing damage. And most of our damage
output is going to be piercing. Giving
enemies vulnerability to piercing damage
either by positioning an ally near them.
If you're doing that, uh, you won't want
to use Nai because, of course, the AoE
could kill that ally. Or by having this
character actually wear the ballist
armor and play within 10 ft of enemies
means that you're doubling all the
damage output of this character, which
obviously is ridiculous and will break
the game in half completely.
For our helmet, the marksmanship hat is
very good in the early game, of course,
increases our consistency, and bonuses
to hit are always good. And then in the
late game, uh the best defensive option
is the Helm of Baldderin, which makes us
immune both to critical hits and to
stuns. Uh obviously, stun immunity is
incredible for this character, removing
yet another possible threat, making you
immune to almost anything that enemies
can throw at you. Another great
alternative is the helmet of grit. This
character has tons of amazing uses for
its bonus actions. So, this can give you
a lot of mobility, though, of course,
you have to manage your health in order
to stay at half health or below in order
to get the extra bonus action.
A couple more defensive options for the
character. The ring of protection could
replace one of your more offensive rings
if you're really worried about your AC
and saving throws, though, I think in
general, you're going to be better off
with the more damage focused rings. And
the cloak of protection uh increases
your saving throws, which matter more
than armor class. So, I like it more
than the cloak of displacement for this
character because boosting your
defensive stats with the cloak of
protection means that again we get to
ignore what enemies are doing. Finally,
a couple defensive options for amulets.
The amulet of greater health of course
gives you a huge boost to your HP. You
can drop your constitution and increase
your other uh mental stats to gain
additional saving throws in intelligence
and wisdom and then also have really
high health. So, the amulet of
constitution is a great fit as well. If
you have a dedicated healer in your
party, the peropive wound closure is
also pretty nice on this character.
We're going to be tanking a decent
amount or attempting to tank a decent
amount. So, being able to heal that up
is really good. There's also a couple
other items, a couple other weapons that
are really worth bringing up for this
character. Valor Louu, of course, with
the shriek ability, if carried by an
ally, will allow this character to deal
an extra D4 of thunder damage on every
single attack. So, you could have an
ally with the ballist armor and faraloo
stand next to the enemies that you want
to bring down. That will multiply your
damage to a ludicrous extent. Um, so an
extremely powerful addition to this
character if you have an ally who can
carry it. Uh, and the knife of the under
mountain king increases your critical
hit chance if you are uh if you took the
dual wielder feat, which of course will
increase your average damage output.
There's also a couple other weapons that
are worth stockpiling in your inventory
for any throwing character. Just having
a lot of these around is very useful.
Plus one daggers or even non-magical
daggers are very useful because when you
throw most weapons, they travel in a
pretty high vertical arc. Um, but when
you throw a dagger, it travels in a
straighter line, so it's less likely to
be interrupted in areas with low
ceilings. So, it can be very useful
there. And also just gives you stuff to
throw if for whatever reason you uh need
to throw something that isn't your main
weapon, which can definitely come up in
some encounters cuz there are a couple
bugs with throwing weapons or it might
not return to you. And light hammers are
very similar to daggers. Um, and also
our bludgeoning damage. So if an enemy
is resistant or immune to piercing
damage, especially in the early game,
then the light hammer makes a great
alternative. So stockpiling these in
your inventory is very helpful as well.
You also, of course, can benefit from
the passives of various bows that you
can have equipped. The Hell Rider
Longbow gives you plus three to your
initiative roles. So especially if
you're not using the Sentinel Shield,
the Hell Rider Longbow can let you
guarantee going before enemies. And the
dead shot, similar to the knife of the
under mountain king, increases your
critical hit chance. So makes you vastly
more likely to just kill enemies in a
single volley of attacks. For our boots,
it mostly doesn't matter what boots you
wear, so you can just wear whatever
another party member doesn't need, but
the disintegrating night walkers always
make a great option. They give you extra
mobility on this already very mobile
character and a nice pile of immunities
to various surfaces. It also is very
synergistic if you're doing a wet and
cold and ice surface themed party. One
thing that this character can provide
because we have so many attacks and
bonuses to throw is is we can throw
bottles of water at enemies to set up
water puddles and get enemies wet for a
lightning uh ally. Um, and if you're
doing a lot of ice surface stuff, having
immunity to falling over on those from
the night walkers is very relevant. So,
that's a very strong synergy that this
character can use. Finally, for our
elixir, obviously, if you're the elixir,
the strength elixir version of the
build, you're going to need hill giant
strength elixirs and then cloud giant
strength elixirs. And even for the non-
elixir version of the build, cloud giant
strength elixirs are still pretty huge.
Going from 20 strength to 27 strength is
a plus six bonus to your attacks and a
plus six bonus to to your damage cuz
tavern brawler doubles those bonuses.
Now, if you're taking all the story
events that give you additional
strength, you'll have 24 strength from
two from the potion and two from the
mirror. So, the cloud giant elixir will
be a much less pronounced bonus in that
case. Um, but this is still a pretty big
bonus to your damage output even in the
non- elixir version of the build. And
obviously for the elixir version, it's
critical. The non- elixir version of the
build can also use blood lust for yet
another attack. We're going to be
killing lots of enemies cuz we do so
much damage. So, an additional attack
from an elixir of blood lust can be very
powerful. It also gives you a full
action which you can use to cast a
spell. So, you can use this blood lust
action to cast something like
invisibility if you want to not have
enemies retaliate against you or just
blade ward or something like that. Um,
so the blood lust elixir comes with a
lot of bonuses in addition to the extra
damage that it helps you do. Finally,
I'm going to mention a couple quick tips
for actually playing the build because
throwing weapon characters do have some
particularities that are worth paying
attention to. Firstly, get used to using
the throw hotkey. Uh it'll save you a
lot of clicks if you use the hotkey to
throw your weapons. So, that'll save you
a lot of time when you're actually
playing the the character. Uh secondly,
carry backup weapons because there's a
couple fights in the game where your
throwing weapons can get stuck and not
come back to you. So having a stockpile
of backup throwing weapons is very
helpful to uh avoid that situation. Um
and don't be afraid to wade into melee
if you need to. Remember you're still a
fighter. We've got booming blades. You
can do a bunch of damage. It's also
worth trying to have other characters be
the first to attack in a fight cuz
there's a glitch sometimes where if you
attack a neutral creature, uh one that's
not yet hostile with a throwing weapon,
the game doesn't think that you're in
combat and doesn't return your throwing
weapon to you. So, you can avoid that by
having another character initiate fights
instead of this one. Also, keep in mind
that weapons aren't the only thing that
you can throw. This character does
really well throwing healing potions,
bombs, and grenades, bottles of water,
any utility items like that. We have
lots of attacks, and when you throw a
hostile item like a grenade, you do a
lot of damage with it also. So, this
character makes an excellent character
for excellent carrier for any throwing
objects that you have in addition to
dealing tons and tons of damage. All
right, my friends. I hope that you've
enjoyed this look at the Eldrich Knight
thrower. In my opinion, the easiest
character in the game to win honor mode
with, and I hope it helps you get that
honor mode win or just help carry more
role playing focused builds to victory
in your honor mode parties. As always,
of course, if you have enjoyed the
video, feel free to leave a comment and
hit like. helps me out with the
algorithm. So, I really appreciate you
taking the time to do that. And of
course, you can subscribe to my channel
for more Boulders Gate 3 build guides
and other strategy game analysis.
Cheers, folks. I'll catch you next
