All right, my friends. Let's have Boo go
for the eyes and we'll see just how sad
that makes designated hamster chew toy,
the Oathbreaker Knight. So, I've gone
ahead and started combat already and
because Minsc and Boo are sharing
initiative, we're going to have Boo run
around to the near side of the
Oathbreaker Knight. We'll go as far as
we can without provoking an attack of
opportunity so that Minsc doesn't have
to run as far to throw him. Then, Minsc
is going to enter a frenzied rage and
run up and use enraged throw in order to
throw Boo at the Oathbreaker Knight. So,
we've got enraged throw and we're going
to go ahead and throw him.
That also applies the benefits of Falar
Aluve, which of course stacks additional
debuffs on the Oathbreaker Knight.
Oathbreaker Knight gets knocked prone,
radiating orb stacks happen as well. So,
let's go ahead and throw Boo again.
And then we will throw Boo yet another
time using our actual throw action
because we've used our two bonus
actions. So, we're going to go ahead and
throw Boo at the Oathbreaker Knight yet
again.
And then for our final throw, we're
going to keep hitting him with an
enraged hamster. So, you can see that
the Oathbreaker Knight is prone, has
eight stacks of radiating orb, is dazed,
blinded, and reverberated, and
completely unable to fight back as an
angry hamster chews on his face. All
right, let's get to the build. Hello, my
friends and welcome back to another
Baldur's Gate 3 character building
guide. Hope you're all doing well.
Today, I have a really fun one for you.
We're sending Boo to go for the eyes.
When you recruit Minsc, he comes with
his favorite fuzzy friend, Boo, the
giant miniature space hamster, who has a
unique mechanic. When you throw Boo at
an enemy, they have to make a saving
throw or become blinded as Boo of course
goes for the eyes as Minsc is so fond of
yelling. Today, we're going to maximize
that ability and turn Boo into a deadly
weapon. Now, this build of course is
more for fun than pure power, but the
core of it is a berserker thrower, which
is one of the most powerful things that
you can do in Baldur's Gate 3. So, when
you need to power up to flatten an
encounter, you can. But, you can also
send Boo in to do the fighting and the
thinking for us while Minsc follows up
with blade and boot.
Before I begin, I do want to take a
quick moment to say thank you so much to
Chris York for the $10 donation, Thomas
Smith for the 10 lb, YFNA for the $20,
Katrina Ryan for the $10, and Tarantula
for the $5. Thank you so much, my
friends. I really appreciate your
support. It really means so much to me.
All right, let's grab Boo and kick
butts.
Now, in order to make this build
function, of course, we need Boo, so we
need Minsc in the party, which means
it's going to be a somewhat later game
build since he doesn't show up until Act
3. But, we don't actually have to make
this build with Minsc. If you've been
running a thrower already, then they can
pick up and throw Boo as soon as he
shows up because the blind is a property
of Boo, not of Minsc himself throwing
Boo. Of course, it makes most sense and
from a flavor perspective, who else
would you want to throw the hamster
other than Minsc? So, we're going to be
building it with Minsc today, but it's
worth mentioning that you don't have to
make this build with Minsc. You just
need him in your party in order to have
Boo available.
At first level for this build, we're
going to be starting with a level of
barbarian. If you're building this
character from level one as a thrower
that's going to be with you for your
entire run for your party, uh you can
start with a level of rogue for better
skill access that can smooth out the
early game and then you'll take the
barbarian levels afterwards. Um but, for
this build where we're focusing on
throwing Boo in the end game, we're
going to start with barbarian. For our
ability score selection, we're going to
take 17 in strength, 16 in dexterity, 14
in constitution, and 10 in wisdom. This
is going to maximize our damage output
cuz our damage is going to come from
mostly Tavern Brawler applying our
strength bonus when we throw Boo. And of
course, we want dexterity so we have
high initiative. As a primarily
barbarian build, constitution we can
keep relatively low cuz our hit points
will be just fine.
Uh for our skill selection here, the
only really important one is athletics.
You probably will want athletics to make
it easier to shove enemies around. Uh
and perception is always nice to have,
so go ahead and select that.
I will be as we go through referring to
my berserker barbarian build guide,
which I'll link in the description. This
build is primarily about maximizing Boo,
so I'll take you through the levels, but
uh for a more detailed guide to how
we're constructing the thrower, you can
follow that link as well.
At character level two, we're taking our
second level of barbarian, which gives
us access to reckless attack. Now, you
can't recklessly throw Boo, although
some might say that that's a reckless
thing to do with your pets regardless,
but it does use an attack roll. So, if
you reckless attack before you pick up
and throw Boo, you will get advantage on
that throw. So, it can be important to
keep that in mind. Reckless attack is
also good for manipulating enemy AI. Um
if they have advantage on attacks
against you, they're more likely to
target you. And that's actually really
important for this character because
Boo, although he does have 20 hit points
and 20 armor class, so he's not
completely helpless, enemies can blow
him up pretty quickly. So, making sure
that enemies are targeting the
barbarian, who obviously is a lot less
squishy, and we will do a lot of other
things to mitigate Boo's uh low hit
points in terms of itemization and
support from our party members. Um but,
the AI manipulation can keep Boo alive
for longer so that your weapon stays
active.
At character level three, we get our
third level of barbarian and of course
for our subclass, we're going to take
berserker. This gives us frenzied rage,
which allows us to as a bonus action use
enraged throw. Enraged throw will let us
pick up Boo as a bonus action and throw
him at an enemy. And if it hits, it will
knock that enemy prone with no saving
throw.
Um it does also knock Boo prone, but Boo
always falls prone when you throw him.
It's part of his natural ability. Uh so,
he will just end up double proned and it
won't change anything. But, when you hit
the enemy, they will get knocked prone
as well as blinded if they fail the save
against Boo.
Uh you will do your rage damage when you
throw Boo. And one of the things that we
have to deal with with this character is
that when you throw Boo at an enemy, he
is immune to the damage from the throw.
Normally, if you throw two characters at
each other, they both take damage. But,
when you throw Boo, he doesn't take the
damage from being thrown, but he does
take additional damage riders. So, when
you when you're raging and you throw
Boo, he will take two damage from your
rage damage that gets added when you
throw an object. Um so, we're going to
need to increase his resilience in order
to make that two damage not add up to
take out his 20 hit points. Obviously,
we need to keep Boo alive if we want to
make the build work. So, our itemization
and everything is going to be based
around making sure that he doesn't die
when we throw him even though he's
taking little bits of damage here and
there. Of course, uh enraged throw just
gives you an extra throw every turn. So,
obviously, it's super powerful and when
you're raging, you can knock enemies
prone with no save, which is great.
And uh spellcaster concentration and
disrupt enemies significantly with
these. And in addition to the damage and
disruption you're already doing by
throwing Boo, that can add up to a lot
of debuffs that you're adding on to the
enemies.
At character level four, we're going to
be taking our first feat. And of course,
as a throwing build, the feat that we're
taking is Tavern Brawler. This is going
to allow us to add our strength bonus to
damage when we hit an enemy with Boo.
Though, it is worth noting that just
like with the rage bonus, this damage
rider is going to be applied both to the
enemy that we throw Boo at and to Boo
himself. So, we're going to need methods
to heal and protect him, which we'll get
into a little bit later. This obviously
is very important for any throwing
build. It's going to make our throws
Uh so, enemies are never going to be
able to dodge our hamster. And then
also, it's going to enable us to do some
damage. The main point of throwing Boo
isn't the damage because he's a low
damage object thanks to his low weight,
but this does give us some consistent
damage uh over time that we can add to
enemies in addition to all the debuffs
that we're doing.
At character level five, we're taking
our fifth level of barbarian, which
allows us to make an extra attack. Of
course, that's yet another throw of Boo,
so now we can do that three times in a
turn while raging. And we get fast
movement as well. Fast movement is
actually really important for this
character and additional movement speed
matters a lot to us because we need to
throw Boo and then go pick him up to
throw him again. While Boo can run back
to us if we share initiatives, and I'll
talk a little bit more about that on in
a second, uh we're still going to need
enough movement to be able to pick up
and throw Boo over and over again. And
ideally, we want to do this from not
within melee range of enemies so we
aren't taking disadvantage on the attack
roll. Uh so, we need enough movement
that we can go get Boo, pick him up,
throw him, go grab him, pick him up, and
throw him, especially if we're moving
from enemy to enemy. So, fast movement
is a critically important class feature,
which we're very glad that barbarian
gives us.
At character level six, we have extra
attack from barbarian, so it's time to
multiclass and get additional attacks by
taking levels of rogue. At first level
rogue doesn't do that much for us. Sneak
attack can't be applied when throwing
Boo, unfortunately. Um but, it does give
us expertise in two skills and an
additional skill that we can select. So,
that's going to let us get expertise in
athletics. With uh 18 strength and then
later 20 strength, and athletics
expertise. Enemies will not ever be able
to resist your shoves. So, this gives
you a lot of control over where enemies
are on the battlefield by pushing them
around or kicking them around, which of
course is very in flavor for Minsc and
his boots. Um, and then for our second
skill, there's a bunch of different
options. You will know, of course, what
your party needs. This character with
sleight of hand expertise can easily
take over as your lock picker or trap
disarmer. You can also give them
perception expertise in order to make
your party better at spotting traps. Or,
you can even, uh, learn intimidation and
give them intimidation expertise. You
have the unique dialogue from barbarian,
which often have very low DCs in order
to succeed at those dialogue checks with
intimidation rolls. So, intimidation
expertise can make this character a
surprisingly good party face simply by
yelling at people. So, obviously, the
second, uh, skill here is going to
depend a little on what your party
needs. One of them should always be
athletics, though.
At level seven, we are taking our second
level of rogue, and that gets us access
to cunning action, hide, dash, and
disengage. Now, obviously, this
character's bonus actions are incredibly
in demand. We're going to be throwing
Boo with a bunch of them. We're also
going to be raging on the first turn of
combat with at least one of them. But,
the bonus action dash will let us get to
Boo to pick him up for another throw
more easily. And bonus action disengage
can be useful, although we're going to
cover this, uh, need using a feat later
on. Bonus action hide for this character
is less impactful. Obviously, you can
build stealth with this character, but
since you, um,
will need to be in combat in order to
rage, you won't usually want to leave
this character stealth outside of combat
because you need to rage to enter
combat. So, this character probably will
not be making that many stealth checks.
But, bonus action dash is very useful.
Then at level eight, we get to take our
third level of rogue, and of course,
like other barbarian throwers before us,
we are taking thief rogue. We're going
to take thief rogue because that gives
us fast hands. So, it means on the first
turn of combat, we can use one bonus
action to rage, a second to throw, and
then both of our attacks to throw for
three throws without any other
additional boosts. And every turn
thereafter, we can throw four times.
When you throw Boo four times, that's a
lot of blinds that you can pass out, and
a lot of enemies that you can knock
prone, as well as okay damage that you
can deal with tavern brawler and the
debuffs and rider effects that we're
going to be adding to these throws as
well. Um, and of course, an extra bonus
action is just incredibly versatile
overall. So, um, thief just gives you
tremendous amounts of combat options.
This build is a classic for a reason.
At character level nine, we get our
fourth level of rogue in order to pick
up another feat. Now, normally, you
would consider taking alert here. Even
though this character has 16 decks and
will get plus three more initiative from
feral instinct from barbarian,
having plus 11 initiative means that you
wouldn't need any initiative gear to win
initiative all the time. However,
because this is a Boo-throwing build,
this character actually has some very
specific initiative requirements. Boo
himself has a plus five to his
initiative. And this character is
significantly stronger if you and Boo
act on the same initiative, so that you
can throw Boo, have Boo attack, and then
run back to you, and then throw him
again. What that means is that we want
to keep our initiative pretty close to
Boo's. I like having this character
having a plus six total initiative with
the 16 dexterity and plus three from
feral instinct because it means we'll
still go before most enemies, but we
will usually roll initiative that's very
close to Boo's and act on the same
initiative. So, uh, we're actually not
going to take alert on this character,
and instead, we're just going to take an
ability improvement and max out our
strength to do even more damage, and of
course, hit even more accurately. Our
second feat's going to be, or our third
feat, rather, is going to be a little
more interesting, and we'll get to that
in just a moment.
At character level 10, it's back to
barbarian because we have everything
that we want from rogue, and we want to
get a third feat. And this gets us
mindless rage, which makes us immune to
charm or frightened. Uh, this is
actually very useful in the late game.
There's lots of enemies that have charm
or fear effects. It seems like this
would have been really useful for Minsc
to know before we recruited him, but now
that we've got him here, we can teach
him how to resist charm effects.
Then at character level 11,
with our seventh level of barbarian, we
get one of the stronger class features
in the game, feral instinct. This is 3/5
of the alert feat. We can't be
surprised, and we get plus three to our
initiative, which gives us a very nice
plus six initiative, which, as I talked
about, was the number that we wanted to
hit in order to reliably act on the same
initiative as Boo, but also still go
before most enemies. I think that this
is better than aiming for a plus five to
have exactly the same initiative bonus
as Boo because, uh, there's a lot of
enemies in the game that have plus three
or four. So, plus six means that you
very reliably go before those enemies,
which is more important than acting on
Boo's initiative, but this strikes a
really good balance when we have the
plus six initiative to make sure that we
get both of those considerations, uh,
taking care of.
At character level 12, we're going to be
taking our eighth level of barbarian and
getting our third feat. Now, normally,
again, for a thrower, you would probably
take alert here just because having high
initiative is just that powerful. But,
for this character, where we have our
goal of hitting plus six to our
initiative and have already met that,
we're going to be taking something else.
What we take here, we actually have a
lot of different options for cool feats
that work really well for this
character. Here's a few options. We
could take lucky because rerolling dice,
of course, is always very powerful. Um,
and this is going to make our already
very consistent ability to hit things
with our tavern brawler throws even more
consistent. Another option is to take,
uh, something like tough, which, of
course, is just going to make us
tankier, which is very important. We're
going to be trying to take hits for Boo,
so being tough will make that, um,
something that we can do more easily.
Another cool option is sentinel. This
character is going to spend a lot of
time next to enemies with Boo also next
to those enemies, and so sentinel and
those enemies will sometimes try to hit
Boo. Sentinel allows you to protect him
by whacking them back. This character is
still going to be a raging barbarian and
will be carrying a melee weapon, so we
will be able to make use of the sentinel
attack to do pretty good damage overall.
But, the feat that I like the most for
this character is mobile. Mobile gives
us plus 10 move speed, and I've already
talked about how important move speed is
for this character. But, also, we're
going to be spending a lot of time
dancing in and out of melee range of
enemies to throw Boo at them over and
over again. And so, having the ability
to use the evade opportunity attack by
melee attacking one enemy once and then
using four or five throws against that
enemy while moving in and out of melee
range of them is actually extremely
powerful. Um, and the one melee attack
will also inflict a condition. We're
going to have items that trigger when we
inflict a condition because how mobile
works is it inflicts sluggerdly on an
enemy, which counts as a condition for a
lot of items that trigger off of those.
So, this gives us another source of
conditions and also gives us a a way to
just completely ignore opportunity
attacks most of the time.
The other thing that's kind of cool
about this is that I have seen this
effect trigger when throwing Boo, even
though that's not a melee attack. Uh, it
seems to happen about a third of the
time, and I have not been able to
determine in
more testing than I really want to think
about why that happens sometimes and
doesn't happen other times. So, for
those of you who are out there at home
and want to test it, if you can let me
know why throwing Boo sometimes triggers
sluggerdly, then I'm very curious to
find out. But, that's a nice free bonus
where you can be immune to opportunity
attack some of the time. I assume that's
a bug, but it's a bug in our favor.
All right, my friends. That is the go
for the eyes build, but of course, we're
going to talk more about how to actually
optimize throwing Boo with items and,
uh, party support and stuff like that.
And I'm also going to talk about some
alternative routes that we didn't take
because I think they're kind of
interesting for this build.
For items for this character, we of
course want to maximize how sad enemies
get when we throw Boo at them. There's a
couple ways to do this. So, firstly, of
course, we want to apply as many debuffs
as possible when we throw Boo. We're
going to use the classic ways to do
that, going with Phalar Aluve as our
weapon because that, of course, will
allow us to use shriek in order to deal
extra damage. And the radiating orb set
with the luminous armor and the callous
glow ring in order to provide to apply
radiating orbs whenever we hit enemies
with Boo. On top of that, we can also
use the boots of stormy clamor. Whenever
we inflict a condition on a hostile
creature, we get two turns of
reverberation. This is incredibly
powerful when we're throwing Boo because
not only are we getting the radiating
orbs from the callous glow ring, not
only are we sometimes getting the, um,
sluggerdly condition from the mobile
feat, we're also getting blind whenever
enemies fail a save against Boo. The
blind does count as coming from Minsc,
not from Boo, so it will apply
reverberation with the boots of stormy
clamor. On top of that, we can use the
ring of spiteful thunder because we're
going to be doing thunder damage to the
to enemies with Phalar, the ring of
spiteful thunder will force enemies to
become dazed unless they fail a con
save, which is another way that we can
remove their ability to make opportunity
attacks against us. So, all of these
debuffs stack together to make enemies
extremely vulnerable when we throw Boo
at them, which of course is exactly what
you would imagine if an angry hamster
was tearing at their face.
Uh on top of that, for our cloak, we can
use the Thunder Skin Cloak. Enemies will
sometimes get opportunity attacks
against us or just be attacking us
because we're up in their faces. And
since they will be reverberating a lot
of the time, the Thunder Skin Skin Cloak
will be applying dazed, which will then
apply more reverberation with the Boots
of Stormy Clamor. So, the whole thing
loops back on itself, creating a
feedback loop of debuffing enemies. Now,
in order to do this, of course, we need
Boo to be alive and to be thrown as many
times as possible. So, this character is
going to want a way to keep Boo alive.
There's three different ways that we can
affect Boo's hit points. One is Aid,
which this character can't cast itself,
but an ally can cast Aid on Boo. Another
is Hero's Feast. If you have a cleric
ally casting Aid and Hero's Feast on
Boo, then he's going to have 52 hit
points if you use a Hero's Feast and a
level five Aid or 57 hit points if you
use a Camp Caster or a Spell Refresh and
use Aid at level six. We can combine
that with the Abyss Beckoners Gloves.
These give our summons, including Boo,
uh
resistance to all damage except for
psychic damage at the cost of going mad.
Now, we don't really care if Boo goes
mad because he's usually going to be
being thrown next to enemies anyways,
and then when he goes mad, he'll almost
certainly just bite the enemy that he's
next to. Um so, the Abyss Beckoners are
very powerful for this build because
they keep Boo alive and we don't care
about the downside at all. Another
alternative, especially since this build
plays well with a cleric ally, is to
have an ally cast warning bomb on Boo.
That will give him resistance to all
damage, so even when we're throwing him,
he won't be taking significant damage uh
from enemies. And that will enable us to
use other gloves. We could use the
Gloves of Belligerent Skies for even
more reverberation, obviously a very
powerful option. Or if we want more
damage, we can use the Sparkle Hands. Uh
throwing enemies at each other counts as
an unarmed strike for the Sparkle Hands,
so it will create lightning charges and
discharge those lightning charges. Now,
again, this is something you have to be
aware of because the lightning damage
will apply both to the enemy that you
hit with Boo and to Boo himself. So, you
will run out of hit points on him a
little faster. But, Boo can also drink
potions, so if you leave potions on the
ground, you can have him heal himself.
Uh so, a stockpile of potions is really
nice for this character as well.
Rounding out the debuffing suite for
enemies, we're going to be using the
Surgeon's Subjugation Amulet. Um
hitting an enemy with Boo does count if
you crit does count as a critical hit
for this amulet, so you can paralyze
enemies and then get automatic critical
hits with your future throws. Now,
critically hitting enemies with Boo
mostly doesn't matter because the base
damage of your attack is one, but we're
adding a bunch of rider effects with
like Flurry of Blows damage and
everything else. So, those uh damage
dice will be multiplied by two on
critical hits. Uh we should also use
some defensive gear for ourselves.
Things like the Safeguard Shield are
really good because, of course, they
give us higher armor class and help keep
us alive. If you're not using the
Luminous Armor or have it on another
character, you can use the Armor of
Agility to get good armor class and
saving throws on this character. Uh the
Deadshot makes you critically hit more
often if you are having it equipped
passively. And this character can
actually fire a bow sometimes, too, if
you don't have Boo within reach and need
to maintain your rage cuz if you don't
attack or do damage on a turn, having a
ranged weapon equipped is pretty
important to make sure that you can uh
if you don't attack or do damage on your
turn, rage ends. So, having a ranged
weapon equipped to make sure you can
meet that condition is pretty important
on barbarians. Finally, of course, to
throw Boo more times in a turn, we want
the Helmet of Grit. Then, when we have
50% or fewer hit points, we get a third
bonus action, so we can throw Boo a
third time. Also, one item that is
conspicuously missing from this build is
the Ring of Flinging. Uh the 1D4 bonus
to throw damage doesn't work when
throwing Boo because he's immune to
throw damage, and so for whatever
reason, the Ring of Flinging doesn't
apply its bonus damage when you throw
him. So, there's no point in taking this
ring on this character even though it's
a thrower. Use the Callous Glow Ring and
the Ring of Spiteful Thunder instead.
Also very important for this character
are some illithid powers. In particular,
ability drain is another way to apply a
condition. And so, when you hit an enemy
with a thrown Boo, it will drain their
strength because you're making a a main
uh strength attack strength-based
attack, so it's going to reduce their
strength by one, and that will also
inflict a condition, which again applies
all of our effects which care about
inflicting conditions, as well as
reducing enemy strength. So, an enemy
that you hit will be radiated orbed,
have reduced strength, be reverberated,
be prone, and be blinded, and thus be
completely unable to fight back because
you've debuffed them so heavily by
hitting them with an angry hamster.
Finally, just for fun, I wanted to take
a moment and talk about some other ways
that I considered building this
character because I actually tried
several different concepts before
settling on the berserker thrower in
order to maximize throwing Boo. Um
with lots of different ways to build the
character, some of which I think are
pretty interesting, but the ways in
which they worked or didn't work, I
thought would be fun to talk about. So,
for those of you who are interested in
the character building process, maybe
this will be a neat look behind the
curtain. So, one thing that I
considered, of course, was whether we
should go with a fighter thrower because
you can use action surge, but obviously
uh Boo isn't a weapon, so you can't bind
him as a weapon for Eldritch Knight. So,
a lot of the appeal of a fighter thrower
um
is missing. And you can't use Battle
Master maneuvers. Critical hits mostly
don't work because Boo doesn't roll
damage dice. Um so, Champion thrower is
out, and obviously Arcane Archer doesn't
do anything, so fighter didn't really
end up being an interesting route to go
for this build. Some more interesting
ideas were druid. Spore druid uh
symbiotic entity does apply to thrown
weapons, the 1D6 necrotic damage.
However, because Boo isn't a weapon, it
doesn't work when you throw Boo. So, for
this version of a thrower, it didn't
make sense, but it is interesting as a
potential route to build more optimized
throwers with. One thing that does work
is Form Keeper Ranger. Swarm Keeper
Ranger's ability gives you the once per
turn uh 1D6 damage that you activate
when you deal damage to an enemy. So,
when you throw Boo at an enemy, it will
allow you to activate that extra D6 of
damage. That could be a cool way to deal
lightning damage and stuff like that.
However, the downside of Swarm Keeper
Ranger is that it doesn't apply to the
enemy, it applies to Boo because he's
considered the main target of the
attack. So, when you throw Boo at an
enemy and activate Swarm Keeper Ranger,
it just hurts Boo more. Uh so, that also
didn't really pan out.
One option that does work and that I do
think is actually really cool is Valor
Bard. Valor Bards actually make very
good throwers. I did a build guide uh to
a Valor Bard thrower previously. And uh
because while Sword Bard abilities don't
apply to thrown weapons, Valor Bard
abilities don't suffer from that
problem. So, they get extra attack,
medium armor, shield proficiency they
get, so they're pretty tanky, and they
actually make very good throw throwers
as well as having the spell access that
all bards get. And Valor Bard for
throwing Boo in particular is cool
because you can throw Boo and give him
the Valor Bard inspiration. That means
that you can throw Boo at an enemy,
inspire him, and then if the enemy
attacks back, he can basically use
cutting words to defend himself. So,
it's a more defensive take on throwing
Boo at enemies. It also, of course,
gives you the full bard spell casting,
which is very, very powerful. So, even
though Valor Bard is the least used of
the bard subclasses cuz usually Sword
Bard just does it better, um for a Boo
throwing build, Valor Bard is actually a
pretty solid option. In the end, I went
with berserker barbarian just because
it's so much more powerful to be able to
knock enemies prone and inflict all the
conditions that you get from berserker,
and the berserker thrower can fall back
on their amazing damage anyways. But, I
thought it might be fun to talk about
the other options that I considered when
building this character, and maybe if
you want to play around with one of
those potential builds, then you can let
me know how that worked out for you.
Uh as always, my friends, if you have
enjoyed the video, feel free to leave a
comment and hit like. And if you enjoyed
this little digression on other possible
ways to build the character at the end,
let me know about that, too, cuz I'm
open to doing more behind-the-scenes
discussion. Uh and of course, you can
subscribe to my channel for more
Baldur's Gate 3 build guides and other
strategy game analysis. Thanks for
watching, and enjoy throwing Boo.
