All right, my friends. Let me show you
how this character one-shots enemies
with no chance of missing or failing
while also being completely invincible
to almost all enemy damage. We're going
to start by casting Hex Blades Curse on
the Oathbreaker Knight, our designated
punching bag for this scenario, and then
walk up to him. I quick saved and cut
there because I've been trying to record
this and the Oathbreaker Knight has
rolled seven twos in a row. I'm not
making that up. So, let's see if he hits
this attack when we deliberately provoke
an attack of opportunity. Okay, one more
try.
[Laughter]
Okay, this time for sure. So, we provoke
an attack and the Oathreaker Knight
finally lands a hit. Uh, we take a grand
total of two damage on our temporary hit
points. And the oathbreaker knight from
the Oathbreaker Knight's Divine Smite,
and the Oathbreaker Knight takes in
return uh 80 damage back. This is
doubled. The cold damage is doubled
because of the wet condition. That's not
necessary at all, but we're showing off,
so might as well do that. And then,
since we want the Oathbreaker Knight
dead, we're going to go ahead and cast a
sixle magic missile. select him with all
nine of the missiles and just watch the
combat log have a heart attack. The
oathbreaker knight of course lies dead
and is uh overkilled by about I would
say about 250 damage in that spot. Um
probably a little more even. Uh so as
you can see take no damage, kill enemies
in one click. Let's get to the build.
Hello my friends and welcome back to
another Balders Gate 3 character
building guide. Hope you're all doing
well. So let me ask you this. What's
better than deleting enemies in a single
click without any chance of failure? And
what's better than being completely
invincible to enemy damage? Obviously,
the answer to that is both of those
things at once. Today, we're going to be
combining two of the most powerful
builds in the entire game into a single
even more powerful build, capable of
deleting enemies simply by willing them
out of existence. You just click on them
and they're gone without ever having to
roll a dieice. And if something does go
wrong, then you can take literally
thousands of damage before ever being at
risk of death. We're going to be
building the magic missile abjuration
wizard. This build is one of the most
powerful available in the current game,
and I will say that it is so strong that
it will unbalance the game. Though, if
you're looking for the most balanced
experience, I don't recommend this
character. But if you simply want the
power fantasy of playing an invincible
wizard who vanishes enemies with a
thought, this is the character for you.
Before I begin, I do want to take a
quick moment to say thank you so much to
Zachary Henkins for the $10 donation,
Tarantula for the $10, Thomas Beam for
the $20, Sevir for the $20, and Pat 1
for becoming a channel member. Thank you
so much, my friends. I really appreciate
the support. It really means a lot to
me. All right, let's break Balders's
Gate. We're using Gail here as the
example character because of course this
is a wizard build and he's the wizard of
the party. Some might even say this is
the most wizardly of wizard builds. And
I really like it for Gail because it
gives him the skills to back up his ego.
If you're building this as a custom
character, then what race you pick
almost entirely doesn't matter. The
character is so powerful that the racial
bonuses are a very small percentage of
the overall power budget of the
character. So you can build it on pretty
much any race and it will be excellent.
and we get all the weapon and armor
proficiencies that we need from our
class levels. Anyways, if you really
want to squeeze out that extra bit of
optimization, then the best pick is
going to be Gnome. We're going to be
almost completely invincible to damage
based attacks from enemies. So, Gnome,
giving you advantage on mental saving
throws, can stop one of the very, very
few ways that you can still lose combats
on this character by making it harder
for enemies to land debilitating mental
effects on you. Other great picks
include the normal standouts, of course.
Halfling for even more safety by
r-rolling ones, Dwgar for out of combat
invisibility, so you can kill enemies
before they even know that you're there.
Wood elf for half wood elf for bonus
movement speed. And if you lean into the
darkness aspects of this character,
because we do get good access to the
ability to abuse darkness if we want to,
then D halfd or modius teling can get an
extra cast of darkness making that an
even more powerful strategy. Now, you
might be wondering why we didn't do this
build earlier. It seems like a natural
pairing. But the answer is that until
patch 8, it wasn't really possible.
Because with the launch of patch 8, both
of these builds got a tremendous
additional tool in the form of, as with
so many other builds, Hexlade Warlock.
This lets us hit the break points for
killing enemies in one shot with magic
missile thanks to Hexlad's curse, while
also giving us armor of Agthus. So, it
gives us all of the tools that we need
to make the abjgeration wizard work and
all of the tools that we need to make
the magic missile wizard work in a
single class level. So, we're going to
start with a level of hexlade warlock.
Since we're going to be primarily a
wizard, we're not going to take any
offensive spells from Hexlade Warlock.
We're going to use it for defensive and
utility spells. But the most important
things that it gives us are Hexlad's
curse, which let us add our proficiency
bonus to damage every time we damage an
enemy. Since we're using magic missiles,
we're going to be doing tons and tons of
damage instances to enemies. You can see
that in my magic missile build guide.
And so this hex blades curse damage is
going to apply over and over and over
again in every uh single cast of magic
missile. The critical hit bonus doesn't
matter because magic missile can't crit,
but it will still massively improve our
burst damage. And thanks to being a
warlock, this gets us armor of agthus
without needing to invest in a sorcerer
level, which abduration wizard used to
need to do. So now we can get both of
these things at once. So for our canrip
selection, we're going to go ahead and
take blade ward. This is an incredible
tool for an abduration wizard. When you
have flat damage reduction,
multiplicative damage reduction like
blade ward is incredibly powerful
because it effectively doubles the
efficiency of that flat damage
reduction. So, it's going to make you
survive many many more times than twice
as long because you're multiplying all
of your damage reduction in addition to
multiplying your health whenever you
have damage resistance from blade ward.
We're also going to go ahead and take
booming blade. Um, I know I said I
wasn't going to take offensive uh,
cantrips, but this doesn't use our
actual stats. And booming blade is a lot
of damage. This character is going to be
in melee a lot of the time because we're
an objuration wizard, so we're going to
run up to enemies and get close to them.
Being able to hit them with a weapon
with booming blade and later we'll get
shadow blade makes us actually an
extremely credible melee threat in
addition to all of the casting and
blowing up of enemies that we're capable
of doing. So this character can attack
on many many different angles thanks to
all of these abilities. We're also of
course going to take Armor of Agthus.
This is an abjgeration spell. So it lets
us build arcane ward. I'll talk about
that a bit more in a second. And with
all of our damage reduction, we're going
to multiply the time that this lasts by
many times over. And if you cast this
with a highle spell slot, you're going
to be able to do thousands of return
damage to enemies cuz they'll never be
able to break it. Every time they hit
you, they're going to take 30 cold
damage, and that adds up really, really
fast. Or 60, of course, if they're wet.
Uh, in addition to that, we're going to
go ahead and take hex. It's only
available to warlocks. Wizards can't get
it and they can get shield, which is the
other spell we're interested in. While
most of our um while magic missile
doesn't use attack rules, so doesn't
benefit from hex, we have a lot of other
abilities that do use attack rules,
other cantrips and just hitting with our
weapons. So, hex is a pretty big damage
source and something that we can use in
some combats. For our ability score
selection, although we are a warlock,
we're not going to take charisma because
all of our offensive capability is going
to come from our wizard levels. So,
we're going to use intelligence for that
instead. So, we're going to take 16 in
dexterity to max out our uh initiative
and armor class in the early game. And
then 16 in intelligence to max out our
wizard spell casting, as well as 12 in
wisdom and 14 in constitution. This
character is also powerful enough that
if you want it to be your party face,
you can uh take some points away from
these other stats, especially if you
plan to use stat items or events to
increase your attributes later on and
put them in charisma and then take some
dialogue skills. Um, and you can
definitely have this character act as
your party face. Uh, for this um demo,
I'm going I'm not going to do that and
instead I'm going to focus on maximizing
our combat power. But I did want to
mention that that's an option if you
prefer to have this character with high
charisma. Uh we're just going to go
ahead and take let's say investigation
and nature because our skills really
don't matter. This character is not
intended to be in dialogue very
frequently. Um and we just want our
stats to give us the highest possible uh
power level in terms of our combat
capabilities. All right, that's it for
level one. Let's go on to level two. At
character level two, we're going to be
immediately leaving Warlock and taking
levels of wizard. For our cantrip
selection, we're going to go ahead and
take ray of frost. This is the best
damage cantrip and gives us something
excellent to do every turn. Enemies are
going to be wet a lot because we do a
lot of cold and lightning damage for
this character. So, we want to be
throwing water bottles or getting
enemies wet really frequently. So, ray
of frost will often be doing double
damage. And it's just the best combat
handtrip available for wizards. also
works well with hex, which increases the
damage dealt when you hex an enemy and
then hit them with ray of frost. We're
also going to take minor illusion to
group enemies up. This also lets us uh
collect them together so our far carrier
can hit more of them at once with the
aura, letting our magic missiles pop
enemies more easily. And finally, mage
hand. Since we want to get enemies wet
because this build does tons of cold and
lightning damage, dropping a bottle of
water on the ground and then having the
mage hand throw it at an enemy is a way
to do that without actually spending a
turn. If you don't like microing mage
hand, um then you can just take firebolt
cuz being able to light fires is also
pretty useful in some scenarios, but
this is the most mechanically optimal
set of cantrips. For our spell
selection, there's a few that obviously
we need to make certain that we get.
Magic missile is of course the most
important one. This is a magic missile
build, so we need to have magic missile
so that we can cast it. We also need
shield. Uh shield is the best defensive
spell in the game. In the early game
before we're invincible to enemy damage
with abjuration stacks, shield is going
to be invaluable for keeping us alive.
Although this is an abjuration spell, it
unfortunately at time of recording
doesn't stack arcane ward um because
it's a it works as a reaction and is
coded sort of weirdly. Um, but other
than that, it's still an amazing spell,
so we definitely want it. Chromatic Orb
is another great combat spell. And then
after that, we can take utility spells
like enhanced leap and longstrider and
something like fogcloud, which can blind
enemies with no saving throw.
At level three, we're taking our second
wizard level, which of course lets us
pick our wizard subclass, which is going
to be abjuration. Abjuration wizard
gives you arcane ward. Now, the tool tip
here doesn't tell you what this actually
does, uh, cuz this is Balders's Gate, so
why would it? But how this ability works
is whenever you cast an Abjuration
spell, you gain a number of Arcane Ward
stacks equal to the level of the spell.
So, if you cast, say, Armor of Agthus,
you get one Arcane Ward stack. This can
go up to double your wizard level. And
when an enemy hits you, it reduces the
incoming damage by that amount, and then
you lose one stack. you don't lose that
amount of stacks, you just lose one.
What this means is that as soon as you
get a few uh levels and get these stacks
to a reasonable number, enemy damage is
going to be reduced to zero, and you're
only going to lose one stack at a time,
which you can quickly replace by casting
more abduration spells in combat.
Assuming that en enemies survive your
missile barges from your magic missiles.
for our spell selection here. Of course,
we're a wizard, so we're going to be
able to learn all of the scrolls that we
find. Um, so what you decide to pick as
you level up is going to depend a lot on
what scrolls you've managed to find
access to. Um, but important spells to
have include grease, which is just a
really nice control spell, and find
familiar, which gives you a lot of out
of combat options. At character level
four, we're taking our third wizard
level, which it's taken me four takes to
say because I kept saying liver level.
Uh, so, you know, treasure that image.
Uh, which of course gets us second level
spells. There aren't that many second
level spells that are extremely
important to this character. We can
stack Arcane Ward using upcasted level
one spells. So, you can just cast a
level two armor of Agthus in order to
stack your Arcane Ward, but there's
definitely some spells that are
extremely worth mentioning. Obviously,
Cloud of Daggers is an incredible uh
spell just in general. um just the best
combat spell at this level and still
extremely useful in the early game.
Darkness is also very powerful for this
character if we take a second level of
warlock, which I'll talk about a little
bit more in a second. Um because this
character can abuse darkness if you take
two warlock levels. Another spell that's
really worth mentioning for this
character is shadowblade. Although we do
have two weapons that we want to make
extensive use of, shadowblade
nevertheless increases our damage output
significantly if we're actually making
weapon attacks. And this character can
of course do that. You can spend a
highle spell slot, a fifth level spell
slot on shadow blade and just wade into
melee, dishing out incredible damage
using the shadow blade resonant stone
combo uh and also being invincible to
enemy attacks. So, if you want to take
fights where you're not spending spell
slots, having a shadow blade as an
option is a great choice for this
character. So, not only do we get to do
the magic missile stuff with shadow
blade and booming blade, our melee
damage output is actually incredible as
well. Obviously, what spells we take
here are mostly going to depend on what
scrolls we find, but these two are
particularly worth mentioning. At
character level four, we get to take our
first feat, and our feat is going to be
dual wielder. There are two uh weapons
at most stages in the game that are
incredibly powerful for this character.
In act one, you get the spell sparkler,
which charges up your magic missiles
with lightning charges, allowing them to
do significantly more damage every
single shot, and also stacks with your
additional damage that you're getting
from Hexlade's curse and other damage
riders that we're going to be stacking.
In addition to that, you want to use
Falora Louve. Either you can carry this
and in the early game that's often going
to be what you're doing and then you can
have extra damage from that or you can
have an ally carry it and you can use a
shadow blade or a shield or another
off-hand weapon. So dual wielder gives
you a lot of different options.
Typically you're going to be using a
shadow blade and a spell sparkler with
an ally carrying far in the early game.
And then in the late game, we get
Marahesh gear and we're going to
transition to spell sparkler plus
Marahesh gear for the maximum amount of
damage. For our cantrip selection here,
we're going to take any utility cantrip
that you might want. Uh firebolt is
still very useful, as is bone chill for
act two. Uh being able to turn off enemy
healing is very helpful for this
character. Um or you can take something
like light, which is often very useful.
friends if you are a party face. There's
a lot of different options here. And of
course, some of these you could find as
scrolls, so that may affect your
decision. I'm going to take bone chill
because it's always useful to have,
especially as we get into act two. For
our spell selection at this level, I
already talked about a few of the spells
that we might want, but obviously your
decisions are going to be governed
mostly by what scrolls you have. And for
your prepared spells, uh just ignore
these higher level prepared spells.
They're ones that Gail has learned uh in
this playthrough, but not ones that
we've learned in this for this character
yet. For your prepared spells, you're
mostly looking at something like magic
missile plus shield, uh, as well as
chromatic orb as your level one spells.
And then at level two, you're going to
take shadow blade, misty step, and cloud
of daggers. And then you can grab
another utility or combat spell,
whatever your party might prefer.
Something like enhanced leap is
obviously incredibly useful and as a
ritual spell. Old person combines
extremely well with shadow blade because
those automatic critical hits can be a
tremendous amount of damage with this
very high damage weapon in the early
game. So, a lot of different options for
how you prepare your spell list. But
these six spells are going to be your
go-to combat options.
At character level six, we get wizard
level five and get third level spells,
which gives us access to two more
extremely important spells, plus a bunch
of other powerful spells that we can
find from scrolls. But the two most
important spells for this character are
counter spell. Not only is this the best
defensive reaction in the game and just
an incredible spell that every party
wants access to, it's also a level three
abjgeration spell. So whenever you
counter a spell, you're going to refresh
your arcane ward by three points, which
given that often you'll have taken a
little bit of chip damage in these
fights to your ward, if not necessarily
to your hit points, this is a great way
to replenish it. Another incredible way
to replenish it is another awesome
combat spell, glyph of warding. This
gives you five possible or uh six
possible choices for the glyph, each of
which is incredibly powerful in combat.
And the cold damage glyph, given that
we're doing a lot of wet and cold
effects anyways, is also going to be
extremely high damage. But also, it's
another non-conentration abjuration
spell that you can cast in combat to
refresh your arcane ward. So, these two
spells are going to be your typical way
of refreshing Arcane Ward in combat and
making sure that you retain your
invincibility.
A character level seven, we actually
have a pretty interesting decision to
make for this character. With five
abjuration wizard abilities, we've
reached a pretty good break point
because we have 10 stacks of arcane
ward, which is at the point at which it
becomes really difficult for enemies to
kill you. Imagine an enemy with three 20
damage attacks, which is a pretty strong
enemy for this point in the game. If we
cast blade ward and walk up to that
enemy, their first attack does zero
damage. Their second attack is going to
do um 20 haved down to 10 and then we'll
subtract nine for one damage. And then
their third attack will do two damage.
So they'll have hit us for 60 damage,
we'll have taken three, and then we'll
have returned 45 damage with our um
armor of Agthus. or if they're wet,
we'll have returned 60 damage in return.
So, of the 60 damage that they tried to
do, they'll take all of it and we will
take three of it. Uh, so this is a
pretty powerful break point for the
character. So, we could at this point
take a second level of warlock. This
gets us a couple pretty powerful things.
The first of these is obviously as a
warlock with Devil's Sight, you get
darkness, and that is an incredibly
strong ability. Um, and if you're doing
a darkness themed character, it's uh
ludicrously powerful. Um, if you're
building your party to center around
darkness. And the second is that it gets
you a trick to infinitely stack your
Arcane Ward outside of combat using the
Armor of Shadows evocation. Armor of
Shadows lets you cast mage armor without
spending a spell slot. And while
normally you can't cast mage armor if
you already have it. So this lets you
cast a spell for free. Um but then you
can only do it once. Mage armor also
cancels if you put on any piece of
armor. So you can cast this invocation,
put on a piece of armor, take that armor
off, and recast it to stack your Arcane
Ward up to maximum for free without
spending spell slots. This is pretty
powerful, if maybe a little bit cheesy.
Uh, but obviously the quality of life
from being able to stack this and not
having to spend spell slots on other
stuff is immense. Whether you take the
second warlock level is going to depend
a little bit on how much um you long
rest in your games. If you long rest a
little more frequently so you can
recover these spell slots more, you
don't need the second warlock level at
all. If you long rest very infrequently,
you might want it. Overall, I think it's
a little more powerful to keep leveling
in wizard. So, for this demo, I'm going
to keep doing that. Uh, but the second
level of warlock is extremely strong for
the infinite arcane ward stacking, and
I'm mentioning it here because this is
the most likely break point to take it.
With our sixth wizard level, we're of
course going to get two more spells. Um,
what spells you pick here is going to
depend pretty heavily on what scrolls
you found up to this point in the game.
Uh, but sletorm's a great control spell.
This character will never lose
concentration on haste because you're
never going to take real damage. So, it
can be very helpful to have that as well
to enable your party members. So, those
are some options. Your prepared spell
list at this level is going to look very
similar to what it was before. Uh, but
is now going to involve these third
level spells, counter spell and glyph of
warding, as well as it it redid all my
prepared spells, of course, cuz it often
does that. uh as well as these lower
level spells in terms of magic missile
and shield and chromatic orb. And then
you can mix in other control spells or
like sletorm or burst damage spells like
lightning bolt if you want those.
At level eight, we get fourth level
wizard spells as well as 14 stacks of
arcane ward. Uh and the fourth level
spells, there's a few pretty powerful
tools that we get here, but one that's
worth mentioning specifically for this
character is fire shield. It's an
evocation spell. So, it doesn't stack
your ward, but what it does do, which is
a little weird cuz it seems like it
should be abjgeration, but what it does
do is give you resistance to two more
very common damage types. And resistance
is incredible for this character cuz
damage multipliers work so well with
flat damage reduction. Uh, and even more
retaliation damage when enemies hit you.
So, the armor of agthus damage and the
fire shield damage can stack for even
more damage output. Ice storm is also a
really nice non-conentration spell that
deals cold damage. So, that's pretty
useful. and wall of fire can solve
entire encounters on its own. So, those
are the most important levels four
spells to take a look at. At a character
level 9, we get to take our eighth
wizard level and get our second feat.
But the funny thing for this character
is that in some ways, we don't really
need it. Most characters are desperate
for feats uh and can never get enough.
But this character in a lot of ways
doesn't really need any of the benefits
of feats cuz we're already just so
strong. Alert is always an amazing
option. Um, but this character doesn't
need to go first as badly as other
characters cuz enemies can't kill you.
So, you can just go second. And an ASI
to increase our intelligence does make
us much better at landing our wizard
control spells. Increases the damage and
accuracy of our cantrips and stuff, but
a lot of our damaging effects don't use
our intelligence either. Magic missile
never cares about our intelligence.
Armor of Agthus never cares about our
intelligence. any attacks we make with
shadow blade will use dexterity rather
than intelligence. So, we don't need
this as much as other wizards. It's
still probably the best choice to just
take two points in an ASI. Um, but
there's actually a lot of more fun feat
options that this character can get away
with. So, uh, I want to talk about those
a little as well. Two points in
dexterity is also a great option, uh,
especially if you're using a lot of
shadow blade attacks at this point in
the game. Some other really fun options
that this character gets include heavily
armored. Heavy armor proficiency is
actually kind of useful. There's some
heavy armor sets that we definitely
wouldn't mind wearing cuz some of them
come with a lot of damage reduction and
the armor of persistence gives us
permanent blade ward makes us even
harder to kill of course. Um stuff like
mobile can be very useful just to move
around and get next to enemies more
often. And another really fun one is
sentinel character enemies will often
try to ignore this character completely
because they know they can't damage you.
So they will try to go after your allies
and just not attack this character. If
you're playing solo, they will often
just pass turns entirely. Sentinel keeps
them stuck in melee with you, so
prevents them from running off after
your allies if you're making weapon
attacks. So, there's a few different
options that work really well for more
fun feats. Though, the best overall is
probably just to boost our intelligence.
We're still a wizard, so we still want
to land those control spells. For our
spell selection at this level, again,
you can just pick up uh any utility
spells or spells that you think you
might need. Another one worth
mentioning, by the way, protection from
energy gives you damage resistances,
which again are very, very good. But
here, of course, you're just playing
Pokémon and catching up on any spells
you haven't found yet.
At character level 10, we're taking our
ninth wizard level, going to 18 stacks
of arcane ward, and getting fifth level
spells. For fifth level spells, uh, I'm
going to suggest Condra Elemental. This
character won't usually want to use
highle spell slots on summons, but it's
still a really nice boost to have,
especially if you get a lot of spell
slot resets or you're using effects that
can reset your uh, spell slots um, in
kind of a cheesy way as well. You can
get an extra summon. and the summons are
still very very powerful. The water
Merrmadon is less powerful for this
character than it used to be because it
no longer makes everything wet, but
still a great option. Cone of Cold is
also excellent and hold monster is still
a great spell as well. Cone of Cold is
good for this character cuz we're again
doing a lot of cold and lightning
damage. So, wet effects, this can give
us an AoE damage effect to complement
our single target damage.
At character level 10, we get improved
abduration, which stacks our arcane ward
to our wizard level every time we short
rest. So, saves us a lot of spell slots
over the course of a day. This is part
of why I think you don't usually need
the infinite uh stacking from Warlock,
although again, that's a very powerful
option for players who long rest very
infrequently. And of course, we get to
take a cantrip. So, we're going to take
true strike to annoy people in the
YouTube comments and some more spells
based on whatever you haven't found up
to this point.
And finally, at wizard level 11, you get
six level spells. And the fact that
Warlock doesn't give you six level spell
slots, uh, unless you take 11 wizard
levels, is again part of why I tend to
prefer the 111 split, even despite the
bug with the infinite Arcane Ward
stacking. Um, you can also respspec to
this uh once you're level 11 and get the
short rest stacking if you find it
annoying to spend spell slots to stack
Arcane Ward. Um, so you can do the the
split with two levels of warlock and
then finalize on this level uh at level
10 or or at level 11 or 12 as well. We
get some amazing spells from sixth
level. Now, most of the time our six
level spell slots are going to go to
casting magic missiles or casting armor
of Agthus, but we still can benefit
tremendously from globe of
invulnerability, which lets us be
invincible. If any fight threatens to
overcome our massive damage reduction,
then we can just uh overcome that here.
And another incredible AoE damage spell,
Wall of Ice, which you can cast and then
immediately cancel to get the initial
damage and the damage over time, both at
once. So, effectively quadrupling the
damage of this spell with wet and
blowing up entire encounters
immediately. All right, my friends,
that's the Abjuration Magic Missile
Wizard. But of course, the way to make
this character, as powerful as it is,
involves items. So, let's talk about
those. For items for this character, we
have two main goals. We want to increase
the damage of our magic missiles. Uh,
and we want to become tankier, so we
want to blow up enemies in one shot, and
we want to survive infinite amounts of
damage coming towards us. So, our items
are all going to go towards those goals.
This character has a few specific item
requirements. And I will say in general,
if this character is in conflict with
another build for a specific item, you
should prioritize this character's
access to that item over almost any
other build. We need a lot of these
items, and we make better use of them
than most other characters. We don't
need them all, and you can certainly
build this with fewer of these items. It
will be just fine. and an abduration
wizard is still incredibly powerful and
a magic missile wizard still incredibly
powerful. But these items do go a really
long way on this character. For the
first kind of item, there are three
specific weapons that we need to keep an
eye out for. The spell sparkler
available in act one and floral
available in act one and marahesh gear
from act three. The spell sparkler gives
us lightning charges whenever we deal
spell damage to an enemy. Uh, and magic
missile deals multiple instances of
damage with every cast. So, we get two
lightning charges for each missile that
we fire. Um, and on especially on lower
difficulties than honor mode, we will
often get even more than just one than
just two per missile because other
damage instances will often trigger
these lightning charges as well. Faroo
using its shriek ability. So faraloo
melody shriek allows uh every enemy in
the area or forces every enemy in the
area to take an extra D4 of thunder
damage every damage instance that they
take. Since we're dealing lightning
damage and magic missile damage and hex
blades curse damage, these will all
independently trigger this extra thunder
damage. So the damage instances stack um
over and over and over again with Far
Lou for massive damage output. You can
either have this character wield it. We
do have dual wielder. Or you can have an
ally carry it. In act three, we get
Mara, which when set with Caresa's favor
to the lightning version of uh
Maraheshar, has a very similar effect
with the spell sparkler, where it will
give us extra lightning charges, going
up to four per missile. So, we're going
to be stacking tons of lightning
charges, triggering the extra d8 of
damage, um, four out of five missiles,
and actually in practice even more than
that, and getting an extra damage on
every attack. This is way more damage,
by the way, than I see Rap City
mentioned a few times cuz that's plus
three damage per missile. Um, but the
extra lightning charges from Marahesh
gear add up to way more cuz they also
trigger other damage riders. So, the
best endgame setup is a spell sparkler
and marahesh gear. In addition to that,
we want the psychic spark. This gives us
an extra magic missile whenever we cast
magic missile. So, with a sixth level
magic missile, we're going to cast nine
missiles with the psychic spark. And of
course, it doubles the effectiveness of
level one or sorry, increases the
effectiveness of level one missiles by
33%. Um, which is a huge bonus and then
just gives you an extra spell level on
every missile thereafter. Um, and Hat of
the Sharp Caster, which uh gives lets
you re-roll a one or a two on damage
dice. This isn't a huge damage increase,
but magic missiles do roll a D4 of
damage every time. R-rolling a one or a
two increases our average damage
significantly. Technically, this is a
bug because it's supposed to only work
on spell attacks, which are spells that
roll to hit. That's what an attack is,
and magic missile doesn't do that. Um,
but it's such a minor bug that I think
Hatter the Sharp Caster is totally fair
game for this character and increases
your damage output immensely. We also
want even more damage riders and one of
the best ways to do that is the callous
glow ring which adds two extra radiant
damage to basically every type of damage
we do, including all this lightning
damage and thunder damage that we're
doing. Anyways, since we're doing
radiant and thunder damage, we can add
in the coruscation ring and the luminous
armor to add a bunch of radiating orbs
um off of that radiant damage and off of
our spell damage, which will then allow
us to to to apply conditions to enemies
to trigger the boots of stormy clamor
and the gloves of belligerent skies to
stack reverberation. When we get five
stacks of reverberation, that's another
D4 of thunder damage for yet another
damage instant. So, all of these items
stack together to massively increase
your damage output per missile by
stacking even more damage instances on
top of those.
In addition to those options, we have a
bunch of other powerful items or
alternatives if we want to be tankier.
Firstly, increases to initiative are
always good. So, things like the hell
rider long bow or elixir of vigilance
are incredibly powerful for this
character. We don't really need our bow,
so this just gives us plus three to
initiative for free. We also can benefit
from swapping out our boots for the
boots of striding if we want to be
tankier for specific combats. We're
often going to be concentrating on
spells, and prone is one of the only
ways we can lose concentration. Um, so
immunity to prone is very good. This
character has medium armor proficiency,
so we can use these. Another way to
increase our damage output also is the
boots of arcane bolstering plus using
effects like haste or speed potions. If
we spend one action on dashing, that
gives us arcane charge, um, which gives
us a plus two to our damage with spells
against threatened enemies. The tool tip
here is wrong. It says when we're
threatened, but it's actually when the
enemy is threatened. So, if you move
into melee range with that enemy, which
you will, or if an ally is in melee
range with that enemy, you get plus two
bonus damage. So, that's another way to
increase our damage. Uh, especially if
you have another character that's using
the boots of Stormy Clamor for whatever
reason. There's also a ton of other
armor options. The luminous armor isn't
necessary and it does require you to be
very close to the enemy to trigger these
radiating shock waves. Um, so there's a
bunch of other options that are very
powerful as well. The bone spike garb or
the adamantine scale mail both come with
flat damage reduction which basically
gives you extra levels in arcane ward
for free. Having the bone spike garb on
basically gives you one extra wizard
level in terms of how much damage
reduction you have. So, it makes it
significantly harder for enemies to kill
you. The retaliation damage is also uh
very good. Two extra damage reduction
doesn't sound like much, but when it
stacks with itself, each point becomes
better than the previous point. So, even
small amounts of increasing damage
reduction are hugely impactful on your
survivability. The adamantine scale mail
is also very good uh for a similar
reason and prevents critical hits which
are one of the few ways that enemies can
breach your defenses is if they get to
double their damage by critically
hitting. And in the end game, the flame
enameled armor can give you damage
resistance to fire and to cold using the
fire shield bonus. And bonuses to saving
throws uh shore up the only defense that
we're weak in and bonuses to initiative
are always welcome. Of course, the
Heldusk armor is also three flat damage
reduction, so it's even more damage
reduction and despite being heavy armor,
does not require you to have heavy armor
proficiency. So, it gives you a
tremendous amount of damage reduction
and is incredible for this character as
well. There's also a couple really solid
armors that you can take if you took
heavy armor proficiency, which I talked
about in the feats section. Uh the first
of these is of course the armor of
persistence which basically has almost
all incoming damage by giving you blade
ward and then reduces it further by two
as well as giving you resistance to
increase your saving throws. So again an
incredibly powerful defensive tool. Uh
but another armor that doesn't come up
that often but is incredible for this
character is the rippling force male
which whenever you take slashing,
piercing or bludgeoning damage, now this
damage does have to actually hit your
health so it needs to go through your
arcane ward. Um, to trigger this effect,
you gain two turns of force conduit.
Force conduit is uh a buff that stacks
over turns very similar to reverberation
or radiating orb, but good instead of
bad. Um, and gives you one damage
reduction against physical damage per
turn remaining up to a maximum of seven.
If an enemy hits you while you have five
or more turns remaining, it goes away
and explodes. But that's even more
retaliation damage. Um, in addition to
your armor of agthus and possibly your
fire shields, you also get the force
conduit damage. Uh, which means that
this is both defensive and offensive cuz
it lets you retaliate as well as absorb
even more damage. So, a cool item that
you don't see used that often that's
incredible for this character. Um, the
flesh melter cloak is also worth
mentioning. You can also just use a
cloak like the cloak of protection to
boost your saving throws. Saving throws
are always good for this character, but
uh we are going to be taking hits a lot
and deliberately provoking attacks of
opportunity from enemies a lot. So the
flesh melter cloak does a bunch of
retaliation damage. And since we have so
many effects that trigger whenever we do
damage to enemies, a lot of those will
trigger off of this 1d4 acid damage. So
it ends up being worth a lot more than
it looks like. Finally, bottles of water
are incredible for us. Uh, we do a ton
of lightning damage with all the
lightning charges with our magic
missiles and a ton of cold damage thanks
to Armor of Agthus doing cold
retaliation damage. All of which gets
doubled when an enemy is wet. So, if you
throw a bottle of water at someone or
have a familiar do it or a mage hand do
it, then you can double a lot of our
damage output. Also, the resonant stone
is great for this character because we
do have access to shadow blade and we're
going to be in melee a lot, especially
in the early game or like before you get
Marahesh gear. There's not that much
time in the game where you have the
resonance stone and don't have Mara yet.
But if you just want to do more melee
damage for an encounter, the resonance
stone increases your damage output a lot
and you can use shadow blade to do tons
and tons of melee damage with this
character.
All right, my friends. I hope you've
enjoyed this look at one of the most
powerful characters in Balders's Gate 3,
the ultimate wizard with both offense
and defense higher than almost any other
character in the game. And of course, I
hope that it helps you in your honor
mode runs. If you have enjoyed the
video, feel free to leave a comment and
hit like. Helps me out with the
algorithm, though. I really appreciate
people taking the time to do that. And
of course, you can subscribe to my
channel for more Balders's Gate 3 build
guides and other strategy game analysis.
Cheers, folks.
