All
right, my friends. Let's burn designated
punching bag, the oathbreaker knight to
ashes in a single turn. I've gone ahead
and pre-cast haste on myself. That's
available to this character. So, you're
going to do it before most fights start.
Um, and to begin the combat, we're going
to go ahead and use Hexblades Curse on
the Oathbreaker Knight. This will
increase our chance to critically hit
and add extra damage to every one of our
scorching rays. We're then going to use
a fifth level scorching ray. We could
also use a sixth level if we wanted to
refresh our spell slot afterwards using
Marahesh gear or something, but uh no
need to burn that many resources on this
chump. Uh the hit chance here is a
little bit low, but it'll get better as
our attacks land because of Arcane
Incuity. So you can see here we've
almost one-shot him. Um but we can just
do the same thing again with a hasted
action. We could also quicken our spells
here. And you'll notice that with this
second one, with the sixth level spell
slot, it's a 99% chance to hit all of
our attacks. We also have infinitely
high save DCs effectively for things
like hold person, so we can lock down
enemies completely. Obviously, don't do
this while concentrating on haste, but
um as you can see, in only one round of
combat, we've burned him to death with
plenty of damage to spare. All right,
let's get to the build. Hello, my
friends, and welcome back to another
Balders's Gate 3 character building
guide. Hope you're all doing well. Today
I'm covering one of the most powerful
builds in all of Balders's Gate 3, the
Fire Sorcerer. This is of course an
update video to my previous video of the
same name because this already powerful
build received significant buffs in
patch 8, so I wanted to update it to the
most powerful modern version. This
character has some of the absolute
highest single turn damage in the game
with burst damage capable of ending
almost any fight before enemies ever get
a chance to act. It also comes with
extremely powerful and with the right
items n irresistible crowd control and
completely breaks the action economy
capable of taking three turns for every
other character's one. Before patch 8,
the main downsides to this build were
that it was relatively squishy as a
sorcerer and extremely restd dependent,
burning a lot of resources in more
difficult encounters. But those issues
have been significantly mitigated by the
addition of patch 8, which makes this
already powerful build smoother, more
fun, and even more consistent to play.
Before I begin, I do want to take a
quick moment to say thank you so much to
Impulsive Tink for the $5 donation,
Orion Estarte for the $25, JD Long Drive
for the $15, and Shaun O'Neal generic
username and Shrill for becoming channel
members. Thank you so much, my friends.
I really appreciate the support. It
really means so much to me. All right,
let's start some fires. I'm using the
halfling hierling as the example
character here because of course there's
no companion that's by default a
sorcerer and sorcerers benefit
tremendously from being halflings.
Although you can play this build with
any race. Um, and it's going to be
extremely powerful. There's some unique
synergy for halflings and the fire
sorcerer in particular. We're going to
be rolling tons and tons of dice, and so
Halfling's ability to reroll natural
ones will come up very frequently for
this character and turn lots of misses
into hits over the course of the
playthrough. We're also going to be
making a lot of out of combat skill
checks since this is most likely to be
your party face. And again, r-rolling
natural ones is great there. Finally,
we're almost always going to be
concentrating on a spell. And the spell
we're most likely to be concentrating on
is haste. Dropping concentration on that
is very bad. Halfling's ability to
reroll ones again prevents one of the
disasters that can befall this
character. Other great options for your
race pick include wood elf or halfwood
elf. The bonus movement speed is
extremely powerful and Dwargar's out of
combat uh invisibility is absurdly
strong for the fire sorcerer. Since
you're going to be burning enemies to
ash before they ever take a turn in most
scenarios, the ability to start combats
from invisibility, get the surprise
round, and kill enemies before they ever
get a chance to act is of course
incredibly strong. Thanks to the armor
proficiencies that we're getting from
our warlock dip, though, you can build
this with any uh any race and still
benefit from those. So, what race you
pick is mostly a flavor question, but
those are some that are the most
powerful from a mechanical standpoint.
For our sorcerer subclass, we're going
to be choosing the draconic bloodline.
This gets us two things. One, it gets us
an extra hit point every level, which is
actually very relevant. Sorcerers get
very few hit points, of course. So, the
extra HP every level, this is going to
be 11 extra HP at level 12, which will
represent something like a seventh of
our total hit points. Um, which makes
the character significantly more
resilient. It also gives us a base AC of
13 when we're not wearing armor, which
saves us a spell slot and a spell known
slot on mage armor since this
character's spells are very very
constrained. Uh, this is also a very
relevant buff. The real prize though is
the bonus to fire damage since we're
going to be doing a lot of fire damage
that we'll get at later levels, which
means for our draconic ancestor, we need
to pick one of these that is a firebased
dragon. So that leaves us with a choice
of brass, gold, or red dragon, a
draconic sorcerer. Of these, you can
pick any. It doesn't make a massive
difference. Um the only difference is
the spell that you get at level one. So
red dragon gets burning hands. Brass
dragon gets sleep, which is a very good
level one combat spell. Personally, I
prefer gold dragon because disguise self
is very useful for a party face and
comes up all the time. So I like having
access to that. But again, you can pick
whichever of these you want for flavor
reasons. For our cantrip selection,
we're going to be picking two damage
cantrips, so we have multiple damage
types and aren't entirely reliant on
just fire damage. So, we're going to
grab firebolt, and we'll also take ray
of frost, which is the best uh level one
damage cantrip. This will let us both
freeze water to cause enemies to slip
and fall and slow enemies to run away um
in order to kite them better. Ray of
Firebolt obviously is more damage and
can set fires. In addition to that,
we're going to grab minor illusion. This
character will have great AoE damage, so
the ability to group enemies up and then
drop a fireball on their heads is of
course incredibly potent. And finally,
we'll pick friends. Um, even on honor
mode, this is a great cantrip to have
for your party face because you can use
it to gain advantage and then just leave
the area and uh it the enemies won't get
mad until it expires. So you can just
wait out the timer on friends and then
come back and get free advantage on all
of your charisma checks. For our spell
selection at level one, we're going to
take chromatic orb, which lets us do
great damage and many different damage
types and create surfaces, which of
course are very, very powerful, and
magic missile for um extremely
consistent damage output. Since this
doesn't roll to hit, you can use it to
finish off lowhealth enemies or just
guarantee that you damage a particularly
dangerous enemy. For our ability scores,
we're going to be focusing on going
first and dealing as much damage as
possible. There are two different ways
we can build our ability scores, and it
depends on whether you intend to give
this character Ethel's hair for a plus
one bonus to their charisma or not. Uh,
this character benefits more than just
about any other character from getting
Ethe's hair. So, if you're planning to
get that in your run, you will almost
certainly want to put it on this
character. It's not required, but it
does make you significantly stronger.
So, for the demo version of this build,
I'm going to be assuming that we're
starting with 17 charisma, and then
we'll buff it up to 18 using that uh
consumable. Uh if you are So, if you're
doing that, you're going to start with
16 dexterity, 14 constitution, 10
wisdom, and 17 charisma. And then you'll
increase this to 18 during play. If
you're not using Ethel's hair, you'll
start with 16 charisma and put the extra
two points in wisdom for one more point
of wisdom save. The downside of doing
that is you're going to have to dedicate
more initiative gear to this character
because you won't be able to get alert
as a feat. So that's why we want Ethe's
hair. Uh and why this is the version of
the build that I'm going to be assuming
you're using for the purpose of this
demo. Um finally, we just want to take
party face skills. Persuasion, of
course, is the most important, which is
why we're starting as a sorcerer. And
then you can grab um intimidation or
deception, your preference. Uh you can
also take backgrounds that give you some
of these uh dialogue skills. The guild
artisan background for example gives you
persuasion and insight. Very useful for
a dialogue focused character. And then
you could take deception and
intimidation. Also worth noting that
with high charisma and friends, you
don't need proficiency in all of these
skills to be able to make skill checks
with them. So you'll still be able to
make those rules even if you index more
into one of these skills. That's it for
level one. Let's move on to level two.
Also, I just realized after recording
the intro that I had blue dye on the
robe for the fire sorcerer. Obviously a
ridiculous choice, so I fixed that. At
first level, we're going to be starting
with a level of sorcerer. Although we're
going to be dipping warlock for this
character, we want to start with
sorcerer for two reasons. One, sorcerer
gains constitution save proficiency,
which is the most important save
proficiency for any caster since it
governs whether you can maintain
concentration on your spells when you
take damage or have to make con saves.
Um, the second is that sorcerer also
gets better skill proficiencies for
being a party face. And since this is a
charisma character, it's very likely to
be your party face, though it doesn't
have to be. So, starting with sorcerer
just gets us a couple small advantages
over starting with warlock. At character
level two, this is where the major buff
to this build comes in from patch 8 with
the existence of hexblade warlock. Now
we can actually we're going to take one
level of warlock here and you can
actually take fiend or great old one
warlock and they're very very powerful.
Archve is also okay but fiend warlock
gives you command which is an extremely
strong control spell for this character
and great old one gives you mortal
reminder. We're going to be landing a
lot of critical hits. So this is again
very powerful passive control. Um but
previously you were most likely when
building this character just to take 12
levels of sorcerer. Now, with Hexblade
Warlock, we get a bunch of incredibly
powerful additions to the build that
make it significantly more resilient and
also much less rest dependent. By taking
one level of Warlock, we get an extra
spell every short rest, which is already
pretty good for this character. You can
eat those spells, turn them into sorcery
points, and then turn them back into
spell slots if you want. Um, so you can
use these short rest spells pretty
frequently to extend the lifespan of
your sorcerer, which has a very high
burn rate, pun very much intended. You
also get to take the shield spell
without spending a sorcerer spell known
slot on it, which is very good as well
because this is a spell you're almost
always going to want, but spells known
are very constrained for sorcerers. In
addition to that, we also get some extra
cantrips, which are very nice. Here we
get to take Eldrich Blast for yet
another great damage cantrip and bone
chill to be able to shut down enemy
healing and give undead disadvantage.
So, we now have all of the the strong
damaging cantrips and an array of
options available to us. Um, and for we
in addition to shield also get to take
hex. This character is going to be doing
most of its damage by casting scorching
rays which hit many many times. Since
hex works on all spell casts, it will
apply the extra d6 necrotic damage to
every beam of a scorching ray. So when
you upcast scorching ray, hex can give
you up to 7d6 extra damage at the cost
of just your level one warlock spell
slot. So, this gives you another way to
extend your damage without burning full
highle spell slots on quickening spells.
And Hexlad's curse gives you effectively
another copy of that. By bonus action
casting Hexblad's curse, you gain a uh
additional damage equal to your
proficiency bonus on every damage roll,
which again, we're making tons of damage
rolls on this character. Uh, and a bonus
to critical hits against that target.
Again, we can do this once per short
rest. So, it means that our damage
output is significantly less long rest
dependent cuz we're burning fewer spell
slots in every combat. We also, as a hex
blade, get medium armor and shield
proficiency. While in the end game, this
character is going to switch back to
powerful robes uh cuz they're really
good for casters. Medium armor get makes
us much tankier in the early game, and
shield proficiency gives us some great
options for items. Uh doesn't constrain
what race we're picking, so we can
always use shields. Um, and again just
makes us significantly more resilient in
the early game. So it takes what was
previously a fairly squishy character
and makes it significantly harder to
kill. So we just get to go longer and
with less disruption from our enemies
while dealing even more damage than used
to be possible. At character level
three, we're going back to sorcerer cuz
of course we want to level up and reach
our sorcerer bonus fire damage as
quickly as we can. Um, and we also get
access to extra spells and sorcerer meta
magic. What spell we pick at this level
is not super important. We're very
likely to swap this out uh as soon as we
get access to level two spells. So, you
can take fog cloud or ice knife. These
are decent early game spells. I'm going
to go with fogcloud here. And then, of
course, we're going to pick our meta
magic. The meta magic that we're going
to pick is always twin spell because
this will let us twin haste and haste
ourselves and an ally for extra actions
or two allies if we want to fight where
we don't uh expend as many spell slots.
Um and of course twin are combat spells
as well. In addition to that, you can
take either extended spell. Extended
spell is especially good if you are
dipping fiend warlock instead of hex
blade because you can double the
duration of command. Um, but also pretty
nice for this character with lots of
duration effects and duration crowd
controls. Or you can just take distance
spell. I tend to like distance spell a
little bit more because it means that
you can play even safer. A 90 ft long
scorching ray means that you can be 120
ft away after casting it if it somehow
doesn't kill an enemy.
At character level four, we're taking
our third level of sorcerer, which gets
us access to second level spells here.
And there are two spells that we really
want to grab at this level. We're going
to pick up Cloud of Daggers. This is
just generically the best combat spell
available at this level. There's lots of
encounters that Cloud of Daggers will
just solve outright. And it's the
highest damage level two damage spell in
the game, even higher than Scorching Ray
most of the time because there's no
saving throw or hit roll with Cloud of
Daggers. We also do want Scorching Ray.
That's what this character is mostly
built around. So, we're going to go
ahead and replace whatever spell we took
at level two and pick up scorching ray
as well for even more damage output. For
our metamagic selection here, we're
going to take quickened spell. This is
very likely to be taken at level three
on every single sorcerer build, and this
one is no exception. What's better than
one spell in a turn? Two spells in a
turn. And that's how sorcerer just
breaks the action economy by taking
multiple turns for every car other
characters.
At sorcerer level four, we get an extra
spell selection here. And we're going to
go ahead and take misty step. Most
characters should have access to misty
step for mobility options, and this can
help us get out of bad situations. Um,
so just having the bonus action teleport
is very, very helpful. We also get an
additional cantrip. There's a couple
different options that we can take here,
but having mage hand is very useful for
this character. There's a couple
throwable items that we might want to
use, and the mage hand can throw those.
Um, you can also take a light if your
party doesn't have access to it because
it's a very useful utility cantrip going
into act two. For our feet selection
here, if you're using Ethel's hair to
boost your charisma up to 18, you're
going to go ahead and take alert. This
is great on honor mode because it if you
go first, enemies don't get to go
second. So, almost any honor mode
character can benefit from taking this
feat. If you don't have Ethel's hair,
um, then you're going to take an ability
improvement to boost your charisma up to
18. So, if you're not using that build,
um we're going to skip alert and then
use uh items in order to boost our
initiative instead. But for this version
of the build, alert is always going to
be the feat.
At character level six, we're taking our
fifth level of sorcerer, which gets us
extremely powerful level three spells.
This is where most characters reach
their first major major power spike as
spellcasters. Now, one thing that you'll
notice as a draconic sorcerer is that
we're heavily constrained on our spell
selection. So, we need to be very
careful about which spells we take in
order to have access to all of the tools
that we need to win combats. For this
character, we're going to grab counter
spell. Any honor mode party should have
access to counter spell. I usually like
to have two characters capable of
casting this because it can just stop
enemies from instantly ending your run
with devastating spell casts. And then
we're also going to replace one of our
lower level spells. These are all really
strong spells, so we're not thrilled
about having to replace any of them. But
since we're very likely to be
concentrating on other stuff at this
point, we're going to replace Cloud of
Daggers. And we'll replace it with a
concentration spell. In this case,
haste. Twinning haste is one of the best
things that you can do as a sorcerer.
Being able to cast it on yourself and an
ally or on two allies is ridiculously
strong. Um, this effectively lets you
spend a and uh no actions because you
cast this before combat starts on
getting two extra actions every turn of
combat. So again, you're just breaking
the action economy completely and
meaning that you act many more times
than enemies do. Dungeons and Dragons
can basically be thought of as an
exercise in trying to increase the ratio
of actions you take to actions enemies
take to infinite. That can either be
done by killing them, so they can't take
any actions, or by directly increasing
the number of actions you take. Sorcerer
does that directly, which is why it's
one of the strongest characters in the
game.
At level seven, we reach our sixth level
of draconic sorcerer, and this is where
we get elemental affinity for fire
damage. What this means for us is that
every time we do fire damage, it adds
our charisma modifier to that damage.
Since we're mostly casting scorching
ray, um, which does its damage in
multiple instances, we're adding our
charisma to every single ray. So, if we
cast a level two scorching ray, and we
have 18 charisma at this point, that's
adding 12 total damage to the spellcast.
If we're upcasting scorching ray to get
extra rays, it's going to add our
charisma to each of those rays in turn,
which increases the damage even further.
So, by being a draconic sorcerer, we get
to multiply the damage that we're
dealing. If we're then adding hex damage
to each ray or hex blades curse damage
to each ray, you can see that each shot
that we do applies so many instances of
extra damage that most enemies won't
have the health to survive it.
For our spell selection at this level,
we actually have a bunch of choices.
There's a lot of different spells that
we could use. Um, you could take hold
person, which can work with the hat of
fire acuity to lock down enemies more
easily. Uh, you can also take hypnotic
pattern to lock down entire encounters.
But, uh, for my money, it feels wrong to
play a fire sorcerer without fireball.
So, even though there's a bunch of other
options, we're going to go ahead and
take fireball. We do want AoE damage for
this character anyways, but um, from a
purely mechanical standpoint, it might
be a little better to take hold person
or hypnotic pattern at this level.
Fireball is a good spell, but not an
amazing spell. But we're playing a fire
sorcerer, so of course we're going to
take it. At level eight, we get our
seventh level of sorcerer, getting
access to fourth level spells. And of
course, there's another fire spell,
which also happens to be one of the best
spells at uh fourth level for a
sorcerer, and that is wall of fire. This
is another concentration spell, but it's
a concentration damage spell. So, for
fights where you don't want to
concentrate on haste, this is often your
best option. There's a lot of fights
that this solos because enemies who are
moving towards you will always take the
damage and often over multiple turns.
The trick with wall of fire is try to
get it in a narrow hallway lengthwise so
enemies have to walk down the entire
length of the wall instead of just
through it and take damage multiple
turns in a row. We also at this point
are likely not to need chromatic orb
that frequently anymore. This has been a
mainstay of our non-conentration damage
dealing, but now we have uh scorching
ray and fireball filling that role. So,
we're going to go ahead and swap out
chromatic orb despite again being a very
powerful spell. And we'll pick up hold
person. Hold person is really good once
we get the hat of fire acuity of course
and so being able to build up really
strong save DCs and then use hold person
to lock down enemies. It also synergizes
extremely well with scorching ray
because the critical hits from within 10
ft do work on the scorching ray beams.
So if you hold person someone and then
hit them with scorching ray, you get a
whole ton of guaranteed critical hits.
At level 9, we're getting our eighth
level of sorcerer for a second feat. And
of course with our feet, we're going to
boost our charisma to the maximum. Um,
obviously we have the plus one from
Ethel's hair. So now we have 20
charisma. That means we're doing plus
five damage with every single ray
whenever we cast scorching ray. Five
damage extra to every enemy we catch in
a fireball and so on. So our fire damage
is even higher than it was before. Also,
of course, this improves our save DCs
and chances to hit, which are very
important for this character. For our
spell selection at this level, we have a
lot of different options. Um, it's been
pretty tightly constrained up to this
point, but here is where you get a
little more room to customize the
character based on how your party is
playing out and what things you feel
you're missing. By this point in the
game, of course, you should have a
pretty good sense of what your party
actually needs. So, a few good options
are Sletorm. This is another very
powerful AoE control spell. There's a
lot of fights even in the late game that
Sletorm does very well against. or ice
storm if you feel that you need another
non-conentration AOE damage spell.
Hypnotic pattern can help you shut down
entire encounters, as could confusion if
you prefer a level four spell slot for
for that purpose. And if you're worried
about certain boss fights with enemies
that have very weak charisma saves,
banishment targets enemy charisma and is
a good option as well. Since this only
comes up in a handful of fights, I
wouldn't recommend it. But there are
specific party compositions that might
want to consider it if you're worried
about fighting Orin, for example. Um,
so, uh, what I'm going to recommend as a
good generic pick is Sletorm. This is
just always an extremely powerful
option, a great control spell, but
there's a lot of different options to
customize based on what your party
needs. When we get fifth level spells at
character level 10, of course, we get to
choose um a sorcerer spell of level
five. And we're going to pick up hold
monster. Hold monster, just like hold
person, works extremely well with
acuity, gets us guaranteed critical
hits, and hits the enemies that hold
person doesn't.
Then at sorcerer level 10, we get an
extra cantrip. So, we're going to take
true strike to annoy people in the
YouTube comments. We'll also pick up
another fifth level spell. And again, at
this level, there's a lot of room for
customization. So, you can go back for
one of the spells that I've already
mentioned. You can also take cone of
cold if you want, again, a large AOE
burst damage effect. Getting enemies wet
and then dealing double damage to them
with Ceone of Cold is very powerful. You
do have to be careful with the wet
condition since it also gives enemies
resistance to fire, and we're going to
be doing a lot of fire damage. But,
there's actually a tricky thing you can
do with that, which I'll talk about a
little more in the item section. So,
this can be a good selection as well.
Um, for a good generic pick, I'm just
going to pick up hypnotic pattern. I
really like having multiple ways to lock
down these encounters, but again, you
should have a good sense of what your
party needs and what gaps you're trying
to fill. At this point, for our
metamagic selection, we're going to take
heightened spell. This can at the cost
of three sorcery points give enemies
disadvantage on saves combined with the
boost to save DCs that we're getting
from the hat of fire acuity if we're
using that or just from our save DC
items and being a charisma caster and
having high charisma. Enemies will
almost always fail their saves against
any of our spells, which can let us lock
down encounters with hold person or hold
monster. And even the most difficult
boss fights in the game become trivial
if you can force them to fail saves
against that, assuming they're not
immune.
And finally, at level 12, we get sixth
level sorcerer spells. And we also get
the ability to freely fly as a draconic
sorcerer. Um, which is really nice. Uh,
if you especially if you aren't using
the illith fly power, um, free flight
all the time is just very powerful and
makes this character significantly more
mobile. It's a great capstone ability to
get at the end of the build. For our
spell selection at this level, we're
going to take Globe of Invulnerability.
There's several boss fights that this
just wins outright because it makes you
immune to damage for three turns. Um, so
in the late game, this is one of the
most important tools in the game to have
access to. If you are using scrolls or
have another caster that has it, chain
lightning is also a great burst damage
spell. Or of course, you can feel free
to go back and pick up spells that you
feel you're missing from earlier levels.
All right, my friends, that is the
updated fire sorcerer, but of course, we
can make the character even more
powerful and more Bernie um with items.
So, let's talk about those. Items for
this character are fairly
straightforward. We're really looking
for one thing and one thing only from
our items, and that is to hit with our
attacks as frequently as possible. We
just want to land our scorching rays as
much as possible to do as much damage as
possible. Everything else flows from
there. So, our itemization is in aid of
making that happen as much as it can and
mitigating the uh problems that turn up
if that somehow doesn't happen. So,
we're basically just building defenses
and ways to make Scorching Ray land more
reliably. For that reason, we're
building pretty much every way to
increase our spell attack roles that
exists in the game. Let's start with our
weapon. For our early game, we're going
to use the spell sparkler as our weapon.
This gives us lightning charges whenever
we deal damage with a spell. And those
lightning charges increase our chance to
hit by plus one. No matter how many
charges you have, it's always a plus one
to hit. But plus one to hit is a lot in
the early game. And making those uh
extra hits land more reliably is really
powerful. It also adds an extra
lightning damage to every ray of our
scorching rays and an extra d8 lightning
damage when we reach five charges. So,
it increases our damage significantly um
every single time we cast Scorching Ray.
In the late game, we're going to swap to
Maraheshar. Of course, this is going to
be the best endgame staff for pretty
much any spellcaster, but this character
in particular uses this staff well.
We're very spell slot hungry, so the
ability to refresh one of our level six
spell slots with arcane battery is
incredibly powerful for this character.
And uh the plus bonus to spell attack
rolls and spell save DC that Mara
Hashkar has is great. But what really
sets it apart is Caresa's favor. When
you have Marahesh gear equipped, you can
use Caresa's favor and set it to fire.
And this will add fire uh your
proficiency bonus in fire damage to
every spell that deals fire damage.
Since this applies to every individual
ray of the scorching ray, this is
another plus4 damage on every single ray
that we fire. It also allows us to build
up heat, which we can then use to use
heat convergence to add even more fire
damage to our next spell. The usual the
heat convergence tool tip here is
broken, but basically you'll build up
charges of heat convergence. You then
activate it and it adds that many points
of damage to your next spell. It'll only
work on one ray of a scorching ray. So
the usual pattern for this is you use
scorching ray to build up heat
convergent to to build up heat. Then you
discharge it in a fireball. So you apply
the extra damage to every enemy that
gets hit by the fireball. It's a small
amount of damage, but it does add up. In
addition to our weapon, because we're a
hexblade warlock, we also get access to
a shield. And the best shield by far for
this character is Keic's shield. plus
one to spell safe DC and spell attack
rolls is exactly what we're looking for.
We also want to hit our attacks more
often and have them do more damage. So,
our rings are going to be the same setup
for that um that in aid of that same
plan. The risky ring again is incredibly
strong on this character. We don't
really care about disadvantage on saving
throws in most scenarios, though it can
be fairly bad because it does um for
losing concentration on spells, but
usually you are not going to be making
that many saving throws on this
character. Uh and advantage on your
attacks means that your scorching rays
land more often and are more likely to
critically hit, so they do more damage
when they hit. We're also going to use
the callous glow ring to add two extra
damage to every single ray. You can see
how this uh works out where we're
stacking additional damage on every ray
and making sure that they always hit to
do that even more frequently. Our glove
slot has a couple options as well. The
Heldusk gloves also a bonus to spell
attack rolls and spell save DC um and
give us rays of fire as an additional
spellcast. This is a really nice spell
for this character uh that just does
some ex some excellent damage. It is
basically an extra cast of a medium
level scorching ray um every single
short rest. And since this character is
so spell slot hungry, the hell dust
gloves spellcast here is actually very
good. The other option for our gloves is
the spell might gloves. The spell might
gloves let you take a minus five penalty
to your hit chance, which obviously is a
pretty severe penalty for an extra d8
damage on any spell that requires an
attack roll. Well, scorching ray
requires an attack roll. So, this is an
extra d8 damage on every single ray that
we fire. We can mitigate the downsides
with the bonuses from our uh extra hit
chance from things like the risky ring.
And of course, the hat of fire acuity
means that once we've started hitting
enemies, we're never going to miss with
subsequent scorching rays because arcane
acuity will give us such a huge bonus.
For our amulet selection, we have
several different options. um the amulet
of the devout if you want to focus more
on control spells. This doesn't increase
your chance to hit with spells, but save
DC is still really good. So, this is
just a great caster amulet. Or the
amulet of greater health can make this
character significantly tankier when
combined with the plus one health per
level that you get from being a draconic
sorcerer. This means that um you
actually end up with an extremely high
health total if you're wearing the
amulet of greater health. 134 for a
sorcerer is uh extremely powerful and
very hard to take down. Some other good
option uh another good option includes
the another good option is the spine
shutter amulet. I don't know why I was
stumbling so much over saying that. Um
which when you deal damage with a range
spell attack, which is what we're doing,
we inflict two turns of reverberation.
One scorching ray will easily max out
reverberation multiple times on a
target. So, that's extra damage and
knocking enemies prone with um casts of
your scorching rays. Very powerful as
well. Finally, this isn't one that
you're going to wear full time, but it's
very much worth mentioning. This
character wants as many spell slots as
possible. Um we we can both uh consume
them for sorcery points and cast them
for very damaging spells. So, the
spellcrux amulet and other ways to
restore your spell slots are very
important. You're going to swap this in,
restore the spell slot, and then swap
back to your normal amulet in order to
keep going for longer during your
adventuring days. For armor, we're going
to end up in the robe of the weave by
the end game. Again, bonus to spell save
DC and spell attack rules combined with
the draconic sorcerer's natural mage
armor and ketherix shield. That gives us
a fairly respectable 20 AC um in the
endame before any other bonuses. And of
course, we have shield to boost it to
25. So, while this character isn't
incredibly tanky, they're not squishy
the way other uh sorcerers often are.
Other good options, especially in the
early game, you can use any medium armor
with this character. Usually, I like to
just put them in whatever medium armor
the rest of my party doesn't need
because they're still going to be
playing at the back. They're less likely
to be taking attacks than other
characters, so you don't need to invest
in specific medium armor sets for them.
But so just go with whatever the rest of
your party doesn't need that gives them
the highest AC. Uh the full dexterity
bonuses like the Yonti scale mail are
good and this gives you plus one
initiative. So this is a pretty nice
character for this up until you get the
rogue of robe of the weave. Uh the
potent robe is also very good. This is
still a warlock. So, even though this is
more for full warlocks, this character
still fires Eldrich Blasts, which will
get your charisma bonus to each ray of
the Eldrich Blast. And the extra
temporary hit points make you even
tankier, as does the extra armor class.
So, this is a good option. But in the
end game, the robe of the weave is hard
to beat for a spellcaster that wants to
make spell attack rolls. In addition to
that, the cloak of the weave weave does
the same thing, but in the cloak slot,
which is also a very uncontested slot.
So that's uh almost 100% going to be
your cloak for this character. For our
boots, there are a few different options
that we can use. Again, the
disintegrating night walkers is always
just a default very powerful boot for
characters that don't need anything else
in particular. So always a good option
for this character. Can prevent you
falling over and losing concentration on
uh haste as well. And it lets you sub
misty step out in your spell selection
for another spell. And since this
character is so constrained on spell
selection, that can get you a lot more
options. Uh, another good option for
this character is the boots of striding.
Since we're a hexblade, we have medium
armor proficiency. So, normally these
aren't available to sorcerers, but since
we have con save proficiency, we might
be wearing the amulet of greater health
for advantage on con saves as well. Um,
this character and we may well be a
halfling as well. This character is very
good at not dropping concentration on
spells. Uh but going prone automatically
makes you drop concentration. So the
boots of striding prevent one of the
ways that you can lose concentration. Uh
and are very good on any character that
wants to maintain concentration on
haste. Another pair of boots that I like
a lot for this character if you don't
mind a little bit of extra
micromanagement is the boots of arcane
bolstering. This gives you arcane
charge, which increases your damage by
two with spells against threatened
targets. Uh, the tool tip here is wrong.
It says while you're threatened, you
deal plus two damage. It's actually
while the enemy is threatened. So, it
can be by an ally and you can be far
away from them. Um, for two turns. This
happens each time you dash, and you can
dash before combat starts. So, if you
want to use a dash action before combat
starts, get two turns of arcane charge.
Your initial burst damage with the
scorching ray will have plus two damage
on every single roll, which again is
very powerful. The arcane charge bonus
damage is also even on honor mode, um
can be a damage rider source, uh which
is a kind of buggy way of saying does
more damage than it should in
combination with some other things than
we're using. and on lower difficulties
will deal even more damage than that.
Your helmet is probably the most
important slot for this character and
the one where you have to make the the
toughest decision. There's a lot of
really good hats for the fire sorcerer.
Of course, the birthright hat is always
a great option for a charisma character.
We're adding our charisma many times
over to our damage, so increasing it is
always going to be excellent. The hat of
fire acuity is the natural choice of
course for a fire sorcerer, though it
takes a specific story path to get. Um,
whenever we deal fire damage, which
we're doing with scorching ray, we gain
arcane acuity for two turns. Arcane
Acuity gives us a plus one bonus to our
attack rolls and save DC. So, it's going
to make our hold persons uh impossible
to resist and our scorching rays
impossible to dodge. So, of course, with
the hat of fire acuity, you charge up
this character to become uh impossible
for enemies to avoid taking damage or
dying to them. If you're not using that,
a good alternative is the hood of the
weave. This is just a flat plus two to
your spell attack rules. And another uh
hat that I like quite a lot on this
character is the pyro quickness hat um
which whenever you deal fire damage, you
burn yourself and get an extra bonus
action. It only works once per round,
but an extra bonus action is incredibly
strong for a sorcerer since you can
quicken spells uh with it. And for this
character in particular, where you can
use it to cast hex blades, curse, and
hex. You do have to be very careful with
the pyro quickness hat. It will burn you
once for each time you cast scorching
ray. So, you're going to want some way
to become immune to burning, whether
that be uh getting yourself wet or
wearing the uh cloak that gets you wet.
Um or have damage redu enough damage
reduction uh from your resistance to
fire damage from being a a fire sorcerer
and then some form of damage reduction
on top of that that you can ignore the
1d4 damage. Otherwise, it the even
though the chances of each individual
one dropping concentration are low, the
burning will uh cause you to drop
concentration. So, you do have to be a
little careful with this item, but if
you want to build around it, it's
incredibly strong. Finally, you can
round it out with a good passive from
your bow. You're not going to be
shooting your bow because you have
cantrips that you prefer to use, but the
Deadshot for increased critical hit
chance or the Hell Rider Long Bow for
increased initiative, especially if you
went the version of the build that
doesn't have alert, will be your best
options for passives. Increased crit
chance is really good on a character
rolling this many attacks and all of
those attacks have advantage. Finally,
it's worth mentioning a few items that
are not for this character, but are
really powerful if your allies can use
them alongside this character. The staff
of arcane blessing doubles the bonus of
bless to spell attacks. We're making
constant spell attacks, so a an allied
cleric casting bless on us and giving us
plus 2d4 to hit with all of our spell
attacks will make this character
enormously more consistent. Balar aloo
is excellent for any character doing
lots of damage instances because the
shriek ability means that enemies take
an extra 1d4 thunder damage from
anything that damages them. Since we're
hitting enemies many many many times a
turn. That 1d4 thunder damage is going
to add up. It will also stack our hex
blades curse damage on top of it. And so
all of those modifiers stack together
for even more damage. So if you have an
ally carrying this going next to enemies
with shriek, those enemies will take
even more damage. Finally, there's one
in particular that is a very useful item
for a fire sorcerer, and that's the
arsonist's oil. There's a few weird
tricks with arsonist oil, but the
default is you can just put it on an
allies weapon, and they can strip fire
resistance off an enemy. Very good to
help your fire spells do more damage and
more efficient than taking the elemental
affinity feat. um is using arsonist oil
to get the same effect. However, there's
actually also an exploit you can do with
this. It's a little fiddly, but it's
worth mentioning cuz it's super powerful
if you do. If an enemy has temporary
resistance to fire damage, and then you
hit them with arsonous soil, and then
that temporary resistance expires, they
get damage vulnerability, taking double
damage from all fire. So, if you get an
enemy wet and then hit them with
arsonist oil and then wait for them to
dry off, they'll have vulnerability to
fire damage from the arsonous oil and
take double damage from all of your
spells. You can also do this by throwing
an elixir of fire resistance at an enemy
and then throwing a different elixir to
overwrite that fire resistance elixir
after you've hit them with the arsonist
oil. So, a couple weird combos you can
do, but very powerful because, of
course, doubling damage to enemies is
extraordinarily strong. Finally, for
endgame items for this character, your
build is going to look something pretty
close to this. The hat of fire acuity
because it's broken and part of what
makes this character so powerful. The
cloak of the weave and the robe of the
weave to make your attacks hit more
frequently. the spellmite gloves to add
extra damage to every single bean that
you fire. The disintegrating night
walkers because they uh strike a good
balance between the boots of striding
which cost you some armor class since
they're medium armor so they turn off
your inherent mage armor um and the
boots of arcane bolstering which I
personally don't enjoy doing the micro
before combat starts but if you do enjoy
that then you can do that. I also like
to sacrifice a little bit of offense for
defense with the amulet of greater
health. This helps us maintain
concentration on our spells much more
easily and makes us actually quite tanky
with 20 AC and 134 HP. The risky ring
and the callus glow ring so that our
attacks hit more often and do more
damage. And of course, Marco gear and ke
shield with the dead shot to increase
our chance to critically hit. All right,
my friends. I hope that you've enjoyed
this look at the fire sorcerer and I
hope it helps you burn your enemies to
ashes on your way to cruising to an
honor mode victory. As always, of
course, if you've enjoyed the video,
then feel free to leave a comment and
hit like. Helps me out with the
algorithm, so I appreciate you taking
the time to do that. And of course, you
can subscribe to my channel for more
Boulders Gate 3 build guides and other
strategy game analysis. Cheers, folks.
I'll catch you next time.
