All right, my friends. Just for fun, let
me show you what it looks like when a
hex blade warlock attacks. Notice that
we've done no pre-buffing or anything.
And we're using a cantrip to start this
off. So, we can do this as many times in
a day as we want. Let's use Alson as the
target here. We'll go ahead and make
that a critical hit. And he is instantly
slain. We have a second attack. So, uh,
let's attack Jihira cuz she happens to
be standing there. And while we've only
done a measily 70 damage to her with the
second attack, though we could have
improved that even further if we wanted
to use a banishing smite or something,
we can now as a bonus action since she
survived, hit her with a hold person
with a 96% chance of success. So now she
can't move and that's just one turn of
combat. Hello my friends, and welcome
back to another Boulders Gate 3
character building guide. Hope you're
all doing well. Today we're covering my
pick for the best warlock build in
Boulders's Gate 3. This is an update
video to my previous video of the same
name because with the launch of patch 8,
the best warlock in the game has
changed. We're going to be building the
new Hexblade Warlock, which adds
incredible amounts of power to the
warlock class and takes it from being
already an amazingly powerful character
and an excellent contributor to your
party to being one of the very best
builds available for honor mode. Before
I begin, I do want to take a quick
moment to say thank you so much to
Tarantula for the $5 donation, A Boen
for the $5, Scott Meyers for the $20,
and Jacob Hall for the $5. Thank you so
much, my friends. I really appreciate
the support. It really means a lot to
me. All right, let's talk Warlocks. So,
what makes Warlocks so powerful and what
makes Hexblade Warlocks particularly
excellent? Well, I mentioned in my last
Warlock video that the key word for
Warlock is consistency. They have the
best default combat action in the game
in the form of Eldrich Blast, allowing
them to, no matter what the
circumstances or however many resources
you have left, always output excellent
damage at range, so you always have
something good to do in combat. However,
unlike other characters that have great
consistent damage, warlocks also have
access to really highle spells. So, uh
they can also just one-shot encounters
by applying the appropriate spell. So
you get the reliability of a ranger or
fighter and the spike the power spikes
of a sorcerer or wizard. Add to that
that warlocks always have their highest
level spells available and warlocks are
uncompromising. You never have to reduce
the power level of your actions for
warlocks because they will always have
the best action available. The downside
of warlocks before hexlade existed was
that they sacrificed a little of their
peak power level in each area in
exchange for this consistency. But Hex
Blade Warlock doesn't do that. Because
of its incredible melee damage and the
absurd damage spikes that you can do
with your melee burst combos, as well as
its excellent defensive capabilities,
Hexblade Warlock is as good or better at
melee and marshall combat than the
Marshall classes, and as good or better
at spell-casting than the spell-casting
classes, making it a true jack of all
trades and an absolute nightmare for
your enemies in honor mode. On top of
all that, it gets great defensive
capabilities. So, it's very very hard uh
to kill. Gets access to some of the most
broken mechanics in the game in the form
of darkness and arcane acuity abuse as
well as some of the best item support in
the game as well. Um, and also is a
charisma based character, so
multiclasses extremely well and can
cover all of your conversational and
party needs. So, every single party is
always going to be happy to have a
hexblade warlock in it. I'm using Will
here as the example character because,
of course, this is a warlock build and
he's the warlock of the party. But if
you're building this as a custom
character, then the races that I would
recommend are D or half D. They get
additional uses of the darkness spell at
level five, and darkness is one of the
most powerful things that warlocks have
going for them. So getting extra casts
of it just gives you a significant bonus
throughout the game. Of course, D also
have a lot of other great features to
recommend them, but the extra casts of
darkness are extremely useful for a
warlock. Other excellent options include
halfling because their ability to reroll
ones makes this already incredibly
consistent class even more consistent.
And that's just an an absurdly powerful
ability regardless. And uh wood elf or
halfwood elf because the additional
movement speed is very helpful whether
you're trying to stay at ranged to use
your spells and eldrich blast or whether
you're trying to close the distance and
use your melee attacks. Having extra
movement speed can enable you to do
either much more easily. For our ability
score selection, we are going to take 16
in charisma and 16 in dexterity. We're
going to drop intelligence down to eight
here. Um, and 14 constitution and then
put the remaining points into wisdom.
This gives us the 81614 81 1216 split
that you're going to see a lot of
charisma characters use. 16 dexterity is
really important for hexblade warlocks
because you will benefit very strongly
from winning initiative. You do so much
damage that enemies will often die
before they get a chance to act if you
go before them. And you have great
lockdown. So any enemy that might
survive, you can probably just uh lock
down with a spell or effect that keeps
them from acting. So winning initiative
is incredibly important in honor mode,
even more so for a controlling and burst
damage focused character like this one.
While 14 constitution might seem a
little low for a frontline melee
character and it will leave you with
fewer hit points, this character gets
great armor proficiencies and the shield
spell. So, your defensive options are
excellent. You can get away with
slightly lower constitution on this
build than with some than for some other
uh melee focused characters. And if you
start getting to low hit points, you can
always back off and fight at ranged
because your ranged and spellcasting
options are so excellent as well. If you
really are nervous about playing with 14
constitution, you can swap these two
numbers. I would definitely recommend
the higher initiative split with the
more dexterity. Um, but it won't ruin
your character to do it the other way
round. We take 12 wisdom, of course,
because we want higher wisdom saves in
combination with the our proficiency in
wisdom saves. This means that most
mental effects will not work on the
Hexblade Warlock, which is great for
keeping you you alive. You're very
resilient to physical damage because you
have the shield spell and shields and
medium armor. So, your armor class and
everything will be very good. and you're
you are very resilient to mental saving
throw targeting effects with high wisdom
and wisdom save proficiency. Finally, of
course, we want 16 charisma cuz
everything that we do is based around
charisma. Both our melee weapon attacks,
ranged attacks, and our spell casting
all use this stat. So, we want it as
high as possible. If you are going to
use Ethel's hair for this build, and
warlocks benefit a lot from uh Ethel's
hair, then you can drop your wisdom down
to 10 and take 17 charisma. So that that
will bring your charisma up to 18. Um
because of course the higher your
charisma, the more effective this
character. We're adding it multiple
times over to everything we do. So this
is one of the best characters in the
game to use it. But since we get our our
full set of feats regardless, you can
put it on another character if there's
someone else you want to use it with or
if you don't get it in this honor mode
run, you certainly don't need it. For
our background and skills, warlocks
don't come with persuasion by default.
And because they're a charisma based
character, they're an excellent
character to be your party face. Now,
Will himself comes with persuasion. But
if you're building a custom character, I
highly recommend a background that gives
you persuasion cuz it's the most
important of the dialogue skills. Of
course, you can get away with taking
intimidation or deception or both, which
warlocks get by default, and it will
help you. Those will help you out as
well, but persuasion is the one that
comes up the most often. So, a
background that gives you persuasion
access is very important. I recommend
guild artisan because it gives you
insight and persuasion which are both
useful in dialogue and that's what you
want out of your uh skills from this
character. Your other skill selections
can just go to uh anything that you
think would be appropriate for your
character for flavor reasons or you can
just take all of the dialogue skills.
Take your background uh to get
persuasion and take deception and
intimidation with your warlock skill
levels and that will give you all of the
possible dialogue skills in every
dialogue. So that's another great option
as well. But the most important thing is
just making sure that you get persuasion
from your background. Of course, at
first level, we also get to select our
subclass. And the subclass that we're
taking we've already discussed, and that
is going to be Hexblade. While any of
the Warlock subasses are very powerful,
and I have many builds up for all of
them, uh the Hexblade Warlock is head
and shoulders the best of them now that
it has been launched and will be the
most powerful way to build a warlock.
Hexblade Warlock gives us several things
at first level, all of which are
excellent. Uh firstly, we get bind hex
weapon. So this gives us the ability to
um as many times as we want per day
choose the weapon that we're holding and
bind it to us magically. It's like
packed of the blade, but at level one
instead of at level three. This gives it
two things. Firstly, it uses our
charisma modifier to attack instead of
our strength or dexterity. So, we now
only need to raise our charisma to make
our ranged attacks with Eldrich Blasts
good, our spell casting good, and our
melee weapon attacks as good as possible
as well. So, this lets us tie everything
to a single attribute. In addition to
that, when you hit an enemy with it,
there's a 20% chance that it'll apply
Hexlad's curse to that enemy. Hexlad's
curse is another ability that we get
that lets us uh that increases the
chance that we critically hit against an
enemy who's cursed and lets us add our
proficiency bonus which at level one is
two and will go up to plus four um at
later levels um to every single instance
of damage that we do to those enemies.
So this will allow us to if we're
attacking multiple times per turn a ton
of additional damage to enemies. This
will work on every beam of an Eldrich
blast. It'll work on every attack of an
extra attack. It'll often work on
additional damage riders that we add to
our attacks. So, if you have a way to
stack extra damage on your attack, it'll
add hex blades curse both for the attack
and for the extra damage even on honor
mode. Um, it's a huge amount of
additional damage and makes our critical
hits much more likely. Also, at time of
recording, there's a bug. It's supposed
to be a 20% chance to apply, but you get
a separate 20% chance for every time you
bind your hexed weapon. So, you can bind
it over and over again uh like 20 or 30
times and get a 100% chance or nearly
100% chance of applying the Hex Blades
Curse on every attack. I expect that bug
will be fixed, but I wanted to mention
it cuz right now you can make this even
more reliable. Hexblad's curse you can
also cast once per short rest as a bonus
action if you just really want to curse
a specific enemy and you will gain
additional critical hit chance and
additional damage with all of your
attacks against them. Finally, we also
get medium armor, shield, and marshall
weapon proficiency. So, this gives us
all of the best armor and weapon and
shield proficiencies in the game. Medium
armor is often better than heavy armor
because there's a lot of really powerful
medium armor sets. So, this is the best
possible proficiencies for a melee
character and just an excellent set of
uh abilities overall. With shield
proficiency and medium armor in the
early game, you can very easily reach um
19 armor class just with a 15 AC medium
armor set and a shield. And a lot of
enemies in the early game can't reliably
hit 19 AC. So, you're going to avoid
getting hit early without any other
investment into um AC, especially
because of the spells that we have. So,
the amount of stuff that we get just at
level one from hex blade is already
excellent. For our cantrip selection,
there are uh two cantrips that we are
always going to take at first level, and
those are Eldrich Blast. Of course,
every Warlock needs access to Eldrich
Blast because it it's your ranged
attack. It is going to get to add our
charisma to the damage next level. Um,
and it just gives you an excellent thing
to be doing even if you can't reach an
enemy in melee or don't have a relevant
spell to cast. just a warlock's best
pantrip. And one of the things that
makes warlocks so good, pretty much
every other character measures its
damage against an Eldrich blasting
warlock. They're kind of the the
baseline damage for um Dungeons and
Dragons. So, you want to have access to
that and it makes you as good as
possible at doing damage. The second one
is Booming Blade. Booming Blade lets you
add its effect to a weapon attack, which
we're making pretty frequently. And at
first level, uh, when we first get it,
it does when that enemy moves, they take
a d8 of thunder damage, which isn't that
exciting, but can get better if you can
force their movement in some way. Um,
but as you level it up, it will when we
hit level five, we will uh do a d8 of
thunder damage when we first attack that
enemy, and then they'll take 2d8 if if
they move. And when we hit level 10,
they'll take 2d8 when we first attack,
and then 3d8 when they move. 5d8 of
damage for a cantrip is a ridiculous
amount of damage and you can do this
multiple times per turn if you have
multiple actions. Um, booming blade is
just an in an absurd amount of burst
damage that you can add to all of your
weapon attacks and it's free. So, we
definitely want that as well. For our
spell selection, there are again, I
think two choices that are pretty much
set in stone for the hexlade warlock.
We're going to take shield, which is
unique to hexblade warlocks. It's the
only warlock that can learn shield and
is uh one of the best defensive
abilities in the game. If you're going
to be hit by an attack that you don't
want to be hit by, you can spend a spell
slot on shield. And warlock spell slots
come back on a short rest. So, at low
levels, this is not much of an
investment, especially because it will
often keep you alive uh against things
that you otherwise would not be able to
survive. And the second one is going to
be Hex. Hex is similar to Hexlad's
curse, but as a spell takes your
concentration. It adds uh a d6 of damage
to all your attacks. Again, when we're
firing multiple beams with our Eldrich
Blast, this is going to add an extra d6
to each of these beams. Um, we can stack
it with our hex blades curse. If we
apply curse and hex, it will do damage
to both of them will do damage to the
enemy when we hit that enemy. Um, and
it's just an an increase to all of our
damage. An enemy who's hexed and being
hit by Eldrich blasts dies very very
fast. an enemy who's hexed and being hit
by our weapon attacks dies even faster.
So, we definitely want both of these
spells at level one. That's all the
decisions that we have to make at level
one. So, we've now uh completed the
beginning of our Hexblade Warlock's
journey. Let's move on to level two. At
character level two, we get to choose
new spells and two Eldrich Invocations.
So, we get two new spells at this level,
but I should say that this is probably a
bug. Warlocks are only supposed to get
one new spell at level two, but in patch
8, they changed it so that you get to
learn two spells at second level. I
don't know whether this was an
intentional change, but I think probably
it will be changed back at some point,
so you only get to learn one at second
level. Don't be surprised if that
happens to you. I'll show you both what
I would take given only one spell as
it's supposed to be or given only given
the two additional spells that we're
currently getting. Um, again, I think
that the choices here are fairly clear.
If you only get one spell at level two,
that spell should be armor of Agthus.
Armor of Agthus lets you turn a uh short
rest resource, a warlock spell slot,
into something that lasts all of your
long rest. And it also helps make up for
taking slightly lower constitution
because it effectively gives us 22 hit
points instead of 17 by adding five hit
points to our character. These hit
points you can help you can protect with
damage reduction. you can keep them
alive a little bit longer by shielding
attacks against yourself, but mostly
it's just to make your character a
little tankier, a little more resilient
to getting a one-shot and also the five
cold damage that it deals back to melee
attackers is definitely relevant
sometimes. If we get a second spell,
then it's a little more interesting. But
the spell that I would take in that case
is Hellish Rebuke. While this won't come
up that often, hellish rebuke can be
pretty good burst damage in the early
game. 2d10 fire damage when an enemy
hits us um can kill some of these early
game enemies. So, while I wouldn't
usually spend a spell slot on this,
hellish rebuke can be useful in some
narrow circumstances and more so than
the other spells that we have available.
Although, we do get the option to take
wrathful smite. I wouldn't recommend it.
You're better off uh if you want to
spend your warlock spell slots on doing
damage just using them on hex instead of
on wrathful smite. Eldrich Invocations.
Again, we have some pretty clear
choices. Agonizing blast is the most
important of these. It lets us add our
charisma modifier to our Eldrich Blast
damage. At later levels, Eldrich Blast
is going to be firing multiple beams,
and so we'll add our charisma damage
multiple times over. Um, and this is
what enables Warlocks to do amazing
ranged damage turn after turn after
turn. The second and also extremely
important uh invocation is devil's
sight. Devil's sight lets you see
normally in magical darkness, which
we're going to start creating a lot of
at next level when we get access to it.
Um and magical darkness is one of the
most powerful things that you can do in
Boulders's Gate 3. It makes enemies
completely who can't see through it
completely unable to target you with
ranged attacks. So you are invincible to
enemy ranged attacks. Also, if they
can't see you, you have advantage on all
your attacks against them because they
can't see you. And they'll have
disadvantage on all their melee attacks
against you because if they enter the
darkness to attack you, they'll be
blinded. So, if you have devil sight and
can see through the darkness, you
basically become immune to ranged
attacks and get advantage on all your
melee attacks and enemies get
disadvantage on all their melee attacks.
And warlocks can make use of this. It's
one of the most powerful strategies in
Boulders's Gate 3 and one of the extreme
draws to being a warlock. So, these are
the two uh Eldrich Invocations that I
would highly recommend picking. At
character level three, Warlock gets to
take a packed boon. And for Hexblade
Warlock, there is only one choice of
packed boon that we can realistically
make. In order to get extra attack,
which lets us make two attacks with one
attack action, we need to take Packact
of the Blade. How packed of the blade
works with hex blade is that um where
normally you would get the blade packed,
it just combines the effect of the blade
pack into the hexed weapon ability. So
you now get extra attack when we hit
level five with packed of the blade. Um
pack of the blade normally would let us
attack with our charisma as well, but as
a hex blade, we can already do that. So,
we're pretty much just taking this so
that we get the extra attack feature at
level five. But that's such an
incredibly powerful feature that pack of
the blade is the only realistic choice
for a hex blade. Of course, if you don't
feel like you're making melee weapon
attacks, you will you can play with pack
of the tome or pack of the chain as
well, but you will be giving up a lot of
power level compared to pack of the
blade. We also get a second level spell.
And the spell that we are going to take
is going to be darkness because, as I've
mentioned many times, that's one of the
best things that Warlocks can do. It
makes you much more powerful in melee
and invincible at ranged. And we're also
going to replace one of our level one
spells. Now, if we have the extra level
one spell um from the current bug, we're
going to replace hellish rebuke.
Otherwise, we're going to replace hex,
but we'll take it again at later levels.
Uh because the it's so important to have
level two spells when you're playing
with a warlock. With a warlock, your
spells always use your highest level
spell slot. You always have your highest
level spell slot available. So, we want
as many highlevel spells as possible to
make sure our spells are as powerful as
possible. The second spell that we're
going to take to replace our spells is
shadowblade. Shadow Blade gives us a the
ability to summon a weapon. And we can
bind that as our hexed weapon. We have
to reummon it every day because it only
lasts until long rest and then rehex it.
Uh so don't forget to do this when you
first wake up after a long rest. But
shadowblade gives us a weapon that
attacks for 2d8 psychic damage as a
one-handed weapon. So it lets us use a
shield and the shadow blade at the same
time. This is more damage than any other
weapon available at this level. And
shadow blade also gains additional
damage when you cast it at higher
levels. Um, and warlock spells level up
for free, so it's just going to keep
increasing in damage as we level up.
There's also ways to increase it even
further. You also get a advantage on
your attacks made against enemies in dim
light or darkness. So, even if the enemy
can see through the darkness, you'll
still now get advantage on them inside
your darkness cloud. And even if you
don't have a cast of darkness, you can
still get advantage if the enem is in
dim light. Of course, you can put out
lanterns to make that happen as well.
So, shadow blade just uh gives us so
much melee damage and lets us again turn
a short rest resource into a long rest
benefit cuz it lasts all day and makes
all of our weapon attacks more powerful.
And also has even increased knock-on
effects cuz it lets our party members
use the most powerful weapons in the
game cuz we don't even need to equip a
weapon in order to be strong when making
weapon attacks. At level four, we get to
take a feat as well as another cantrip
and an additional spell. So, the cantrip
that we're going to take, there are, I
think, a couple choices here that all
make some sense. Um, and it's going to
be based on what else you have in your
party. Minor illusion is a very powerful
tool. So, if you don't have this
elsewhere, you should pick it up. You
can cast it out of combat. Enemies will
run towards it, and you can use it to
set up AoE attacks against them by
gathering them into one place or split
them up so you can pick them off one by
one. Another great option is friends
because it if this is your party face,
friends will let you make your dialogue
checks more easily. Even on honor mode,
you can just leave the area after
casting it and it won't have the
penalty. Um, Blade Ward can help you
defend yourself because gaining damage
resistance is very useful for this
character that is often up in melee and
front lining. And bone chill is
excellent in act two, especially cuz
there's a lot of undead and a lot of
healing that you need to prevent. The
best from a combat perspective is going
to be bone chill. So, we're going to
take that here. But any of those four
are pretty reasonable picks. For our
spell selection, there's really three
choices that we can take. Oh, I guess I
forgot to actually confirm replacing uh
Shadow Blade here. So, let's make sure
we actually do that. Um, and then for
our spell selection here, there are
really three choices that we can take.
You can take cloud of daggers for AoE
damage. This is a great concentration
spell that does AOE damage. So, if your
party needs that, you can grab it. Misty
step as a panic button to get out of a
fight that you want to leave or just
reposition or hold person because this
is a great control spell and also will
make your melee attacks critically hit.
I'm going to recommend cloud of daggers,
but if another party member has cloud of
daggers, you can take either of the
other two and benefit very strongly from
that. for our feet. Since this is honor
mode, we're going to take alert.
Initiative is so important in honor mode
that almost every honor mode character
wants to grab alert as quickly as
possible so that you win initiative 100%
of the time. If you go first, enemies
often don't get to go second. So, this
uh this feat just wins honor mode for
you so reliably because it makes your
characters so much better at ending
fights before they start. At character
level five, we get several extremely
powerful things. We get deepened packed,
which because we took Pack of the Blade,
gives us a second melee attack every
time we attack, doubling our damage
output when we're melee attacking, which
obviously is awesome. We also get third
level spells, which are some of the most
powerful spells in the game. Thirdle
spells are where spellcasters typically
hit their huge power spikes, and extra
attack is where marshall characters
typically hit their huge power spikes.
So level five for hex blade, you get
double power spikes and become
incredibly strong all of a sudden and
you are already very strong, but this is
where the class really uh takes off into
the stratosphere. For our spell
selection at this level, there are two
spells that we really want. So we're
going to replace one of our earlier
spells again. We're going to take
counter spell um because counter spell
is the best defensive reaction in the
game. you always have highlevel spell
slots to use with a warlock, so you'll
almost always automatically succeed on
counter spell. Um, and this just lets
you trade your reaction for an enemy's
whole turn, stopping them from doing
anything and keeping your party safe.
The second spell that we're going to
take is again we're going to replace an
earlier spell and we're going to replace
cloud of daggers here because we have
now a better AoE concentration spell to
concentrate on. And the second spell
that we're going to take is hunger of
Hadar. Hunger of Hadar is a huge AoE
that blinds enemies without a saving
throw inside it. And they take cold and
acid damage every turn. It also counts
as difficult terrain, so it's harder for
them to get out of it. Combine hunger of
Hadar with an effect like spike growth
to slow enemies movement speed and make
them take damage while they're having to
walk out of it, and you have built your
own uh microwave to just instantly win a
bunch of encounters by stacking these
spells on top of each other. So, hunger
of Hadar, just an absolutely
game-winning spell. And again, one of
the major draws to Warlock is just how
good this spell is. We also get another
Eldrich Invocation. Um, and again, the
choice is pretty clear for what the best
Eldrich Invocation is here. We're going
to take Repelling Blast. Repelling Blast
lets us push enemies 15 ft when we hit
them with an Eldrich Blast. And that can
include back into a hunger of Hadar off
of a cliff uh into a melee enemy uh into
a melee allies range or away from our
warlock if we're trying to stay at
range. It let gives you a lot more
control over the battlefield. So
repelling blast is just a super powerful
effect and especially because we also
got a second Eldrich blast beam at level
five and more damage on booming blade as
well. Level five is the gift that keeps
on giving. Um so this just gives you
even more tactical options.
At level
six, we get because we're a hexblade
warlock, the oursed spectre ability. So,
when uh an enemy dies who has hexlad's
curse on them, and this includes if you
have a second hexlade in your party,
their hex blade curses as well will let
you trigger a cursed spectre. Uh you can
use your reaction to summon a creature
from it. Free summons that don't take an
action are amazing. And the strength of
the creature is based on the si the the
spectre is based on the size of the
enemy. So this just adds a ton of things
to the battlefield that you can use to
block doorways, do a bunch of extra
damage. The specters are pretty powerful
combatants as well and they'll absorb
hits for your party so they keep your
party safe. A great feature and you
don't have to spend a resource on it at
all. Um it just happens when you're
fighting. So you will get a lot of
benefit out of a cursed spectre. for our
spell selection at this level. Oh,
again, I I uh failed to actually select
replace spell there. I need to remember
to hit the confirm button. So, don't
forget to do that. Um for our spell
selection at this level, we're going to
go back and grab one of the earlier
spells that we didn't take um before. Uh
whether that is
uh hold person to get automatic critical
hits or we could take another AoE
control spell like hypnotic pattern or
fear. Those are both great options also,
but I'm going to recommend taking hold
person because getting guaranteed
critical hits against enemies is great.
And hold person works really well with
some items that we're going to want
later on as well. At level seven, we get
fourth level spells. And there's
actually a lot of great options for
different spells that we can take at
this level. So, you kind of have a
choice depending on what you want to
emphasize. Banishment can win certain
encounters all on its own because a lot
of it targets the enemy's charisma save
and a lot of enemies have terrible
charisma saves. So banishment can just
win those encounters outright cuz
they'll have a very hard time succeeding
on the saving throw against it. Greater
invisibility can be used with a stealth
character to make attacks outside of
combat and kill enemies before they ever
know that you're there. Fantasmal killer
is unique to hex blades. No other
warlocks get access to this. And so, and
while this is a pretty weak spell for
most spellcasters that get it, warlocks
don't have to expend a highle spell slot
on it cuz all of your spell slots
upgrade for free. And the effect of the
spell is actually not bad. It does
pretty good psychic damage, and we want
to improve our psychic damage anyways
because of our shadow blade. And locking
an enemy in place for 10 turns and
giving them disadvantage on uh attack
roles is really pretty good for our
concentration. So, this is a great
option as well. Staggering smite is
extra burst damage and can prevent
enemies from attacking, but it also
takes your concentration. So I I would
recommend fantasmal killer over that.
But honestly, the recommendation that I
would mostly make for our fourth level
spells is to go back and grab hypnotic
pattern or misty step from earlier
levels because these spells are really
really useful to have and can win
certain encounters on their own or get
you out of trouble if uh things are
looking grim. So, we're going to grab um
just misty step as a panic button.
Typically, we're going to spend our
concentration either on darkness or
hunger of Hadar. So, having a a spell
that we can use if things are going
really badly can give us a panic button
to make sure things don't snowball out
of control and cost you your honor mode
run. Our Eldrich Invocation also gives
us another great combat option in the
form of the dreadful word invocation
which lets us cast confusion, another
AoE control spell with our warlock spell
slots. Um, so we can just use that as
well. Confusion also doesn't hit allies.
So unlike a lot of other AoE spells, if
we're up in melee or our allies are
mixed in in melee, we can confuse all
the enemies and lock down the encounter
without hitting our allies. At level
eight, we get our second feat. And of
course, the feat that we're going to
take is an ability improvement to max
out our charisma. We want to increase
our charisma as soon as possible, but
it's more important to get alert in
honor mode, so we pick that up early.
Um, but if you're using Ethel's hair,
you'll already have 18 charisma. And if
you aren't, there's gear and story
events that can boost your charisma as
well. Um, but just increasing our
charisma increases all of our damage and
the likelihood of success of all of our
abilities. for our spell selection at
this level. At this point, you should
have a pretty good idea of what spells
you're using and what you're not and
what holes you're uh are in your party
that you need to fill with your spells.
So, you can take one of the ones that I
mentioned in order to uh make sure that
you have the answers to every problem
that might come up. I'm going to
recommend Fantasmal Killer just cuz it's
kind of fun that we get to use this
spell that most characters will just
kind of ignore. Um though, it's not
going to come up that often. It is fun
that you get to use the spell in a way
that most characters can't. At level
9 in Hexblade Warlock, we get fifth
level spells. And for a lot of
characters, these are relatively weak,
but for hex blades, we get some really
good fifth level spell options. The two
unique spells that hexlades get that
other warlocks don't get access to are
amazing spells. The first of these that
we're definitely going to take is
banishing smite. While this does take
our concentration, so be careful cuz it
will end your concentration on darkness
or hunger of Hadar, banishing smite does
5d10 bonus force damage. And if the
enemy has 50 or fewer hit points, they
get banished for two turns as well. Um
5d10 bonus damage or 10d10 on a critical
hit is a massive amount of burst damage.
And while normally spending a fifth
level spell slot is a big cost, for
warlocks it's not cuz that's just a
short rest resource. So this is a huge
amount of burst damage. the second one
that we're going to take and we're going
to replace one of our lower level
spells. At this point, you should have a
good idea of what spells you're not
using that frequently, but we're very
rarely going to be concentrating on hex.
So, that's the one I'm going to get rid
of here. Um, and the second one that
we're going to take is cone of cold.
Warlocks can suffer from not having
great AoE burst damage, but not hexlade
warlocks cuz this class gets to do
everything. Uh, cone of cold, another
spell that often a wizard or sorcerer
won't want to spend a spell slot on
because it it's a very expensive spell,
but not for warlocks. 88 cold damage is
a huge amount of burst damage. You can
double this by getting the enemies wet
with create water or throwing a bottle
of water at them. Um, so cone of cold
does a an enormous amount of burst
damage to an AoE group of enemies and
can clear out ads or additional enemies
in a combat encounter very very quickly
and efficiently. So now we have
incredible sustain damage, incredible
melee and range damage, excellent
control, and AOE burst. So Hexblade with
the addition of cone of cold gets to do
the very last thing that we couldn't do
perfectly perfectly. And that's why it's
such an incredibly strong character. We
also get another Eldrich Invocation. And
this gives us yet another whole
dimension to our character cuz we can
take minions of chaos and summon a an
elemental. Um the elementals from
minions of chaos last all day. So again,
we convert a short rest resource to a
long rest benefit and are very powerful
summons. The water elemental is probably
the best of them, but all of them have
their uses, and I encourage you to
experiment with this, but summons are
super powerful, and getting to use your
short rest resource for a long rest
benefit remains excellent every time
that you can do that with a warlock. Of
course, we have to actually replace our
spells here. So, let's go ahead and
select that and then move on to level
10. And at level 10, hexlade warlocks
get yet another unique feature. Um, this
is a a very powerful defensive option.
When a creature you curse with Hex
Blades curse attacks you, you get to use
your reaction to have a 50% chance of
just negating the attack entirely. How
the game works, how the game treats this
is that the attack will be treated as a
critical miss. So, not only will you
take no damage, no like additional
effects or control or knocking you prone
or anything that might have happened on
the attack will be applied. The armor of
hex's is just a 50% chance of negating
an attack entirely and it's more or less
free because it takes your reaction, but
if you don't have another use for your
reaction, this makes you a lot tankier
overall. A pretty useful ability. It's
not going to come up in every combat,
but when it does, you're very happy to
have it. We also get an additional
cantrip. So, of course, we're going to
take true strike to annoy people in the
YouTube comments. And um for our spell
selection here, we're going to take hold
monster. Hold monster is an enchantment
spell which is very relevant and can
paralyze enemies. Um, just like hold
person, we can actually uh use both
because hold person will upcast to
target four characters cuz we're using a
fifth level spell slot to cast it. Hold
monster will only target one with a
fifth level spell slot. Um, but it will
target things that hold person can't. So
it gives us the ability to paralyze and
get automatic critical hits against even
more enemies. super super powerful
ability. Of course, at this point again,
you should have a good idea of which of
these spells you are not using
frequently and you can replace them for
something else. There's definitely a
bunch of other good options. Um, but by
the time you're level 9, you are level
10, you will know what your party needs
better than I do and can take one of the
spells that I've mentioned previously.
Um, in order to round out whatever you
might happen to need. At level 11,
warlocks get access to the mystic
arcana. You get to choose one of these
and the mystic arcum is basically a
sixle spell slot that you can cast once
per day. Um, and you get to choose from
five different options. Of these, only
two I think are really worth
considering. The create undead spell
gives you a very powerful summon, the
heinous mummy. Um, and summons again are
very, very good. Uh, it also does extra
damage to enemies that are frightened
and can crowdcontrol them. So, a pretty
powerful summon. And I bite. Ibite can
be used to just win one encounter per
day, more or less on its own because it
gives you the ability to cast every turn
I bite. Um, which will let you choose
between paralyzing or putting creatures
to sleep or making them afraid. Um, just
a very powerful crowd control effect.
Also, I like that it's got a recursive
tool tip, so we can keep generating more
and more uh more and more ibite tool
tips if we really want to. Um, of these
two, I recommend taking Create Undead.
Just the ability to buff your whole
party for the entire day is so powerful,
and we already have encounter spells.
So, while IBite is super fun and very
strong, you will not go wrong taking it.
I think that overall you're going to be
better just making your party stronger
all day, better off making your party
stronger all day. The other thing that
you get is the ability to cast a third
spell every uh short rest. So, your
longevity and power level in an
encounter have gone up massively at
level 11. For our spell selection at
this level, again, we're going to go
back and grab a utility spell from an
earlier level. Um, but I do recommend
picking up hypnotic pattern cuz it goes
very well with some of the items that
you can potentially use because uh as an
illusion spell, it works with the band
of the mystic scoundrel excellently to
break the game entirely. And finally, at
level 12, we get access to another feat.
And the feat that we're going to take is
just absolutely certainly going to be
ability improvement and max out our
charisma. We want our charisma to be as
high as possible because it's what our
character uses to do everything. So no
other feat here would make sense. And
our Eldrich Invocation is also quite set
because we're always going to take
lifrinker. Available only to level 12
warlocks. This lets you add your
charisma damage to your weapon attacks
again. So it will our weapon attacks
will now be doing our charisma damage
twice over with 20 or more charisma.
This is a huge amount of additional
damage every single turn. Lifinkrinker
just a very very powerful ability for
our spell selection. At this point again
you should know what you need better
than I do. Um but you can go back and
grab some other spells from earlier
levels that you might be missing at this
point. Uh something like banishment for
specific encounters can be very helpful
as well. All right my friends that is
the Hexblade Warlock. a true jack of all
trades, capable of tanking, doing melee
damage, doing range damage, casting
encounter spells, uh doing uh supporting
your allies, performing excellently in
dialogue. This character truly does
everything. But of course, we also have
access to a bunch of broken combos and
powerful options with items and alithid
powers. So, let's talk about those. One
of the many amazing things about this
character is how many of the game's best
item combinations we get access to, but
also how item independent we actually
are. We don't even need a weapon cuz we
produce our own weapon. So, this
character can fit into pretty much any
party without causing gear conflicts,
but also gives you access to some of the
most powerful gear combinations in the
entire game. Firstly, for our weapon,
we're almost always going to be using a
shadow blade. So, shadow blade, of
course, we summon it. And now we have
the shadowblade weapon that will do
additional damage. Then of course make
sure that you bind it as your hex
weapon. Otherwise, it's not going to do
the extra damage that you need it to do.
Um, some other great weapon options that
we have include the infernal rapier,
which is available from Will's personal
quest and gives you extra spell DC. Uh
it's redundant with the charisma damage
uh charisma to hit chance that hex blade
warlock already gets, but is still a
very powerful weapon with a great summon
attached to it. Char's spear of evening
is also an awesome weapon for any
character that cares about darkness and
is making weapon attacks. Um it's
probably the single best weapon in the
game to actually attack enemies with. So
makes an incredible weapon for this
character. Um, but of course another
character can use it and then they can
see through darkness using its passive.
Marahesh gear of course always amazing
for any caster. So also very very useful
for this character as well. Uh, also
don't forget that your bow can give you
a passive. So an item like the deadshot
even when we don't have it equipped or
don't have it out and are using melee
attacks will still increase our chance
of critically hitting. Combine that with
the advantage we have on all our attacks
and the increased chance of critically
hitting with uh Hexblad's curse and we
get a lot of critical hits. Other super
important things from our our items are
we just want to increase our spell save
DC as much as possible. A shield like
Keix shield increases our armor class
and gives us extra spell safe DC. So
this is the one I would recommend over
pretty much every other shield in the
game for this character. And items like
the fistbreaker helm that give you
bonuses to initiative and spell save DC
are at a premium for this character as
well. Increases to your spell safe DC
mean that enemies won't be able to
resist your spells and that's obviously
awesome. For our armor, we have a choice
between a more offensive setup and a
more defensive setup. If we prefer a
more offensive setup, the potent robe is
the best possible armor for this
character. It increases our cantrip
damage by our charisma modifier. So now
we're adding double our charisma to
Eldrich blasts, which is better for
ranged attacks. But even more
importantly, booming blade is also a
cantrip and works with the potent robe.
So we're adding our charisma modifier to
damage on that as well. Um, in addition
to the double our charisma modifier
damage we're already doing on our weapon
attack. So we're stacking our charisma
over and over again. For a more
defensively uh focused setup, the armor
of agility can give us much higher um
armor class and better saving throws. Or
the flame enameled armor can give us
resistances and bonuses to our
initiative to make us even better at
going before enemies do. Speaking of our
charisma, the birthright hat or other
increases to our charisma from story
events are awesome. Anything that
increases our charisma for this
character is at a premium because we add
it so many times to our attacks. Um, and
also uh in the form of hats or rings.
And speaking of charisma, the ring or
diadem of arcane synergy let us use
arcane synergy to add to our weapon
attacks, you guessed it, our charisma
damage all over again. So, we can stack
up to six times our charisma in damage
on our weapon attacks if we have arcane
synergy with liferinker with um the
potent robe and booming blade and so on.
The ring is probably better than the
diadem because the helmet slot is so
contested for this character, but either
are good and arcane synergy is
incredibly powerful for this character.
Another amazing combo that we have
access to for this character is the
helmet of arcane acuity or other sources
of arcane acuity and the band of the
mystic scoundrel. We're making weapon
attacks constantly, so we'll stack
Arcane Acuity really quickly. And this
is probably the single most powerful
mechanic in Boulder's Gate 3 because
every time we stack it up to a maximum
of seven, we get a bonus to our uh spell
save DC for our spells. This can be used
in combination with the band of the
mystic scoundrel, which lets us then
cast an illusion or enchantment spell.
Notice how many of our control spells
like hypnotic pattern or hold monster
are illusion or enchantment as a bonus
action. So we can attack twice with our
main action. uh stack up arcane acuity
and then cast an almost unresistable
fold monster or hypnotic pattern,
locking enemies out of the fight
completely. It's an incredibly powerful
combo, these two items, and this
character is one of the best in the game
at using them, which is yet another
thing that it does extremely well.
Because of this, we're also really good
at using scrolls. So, this character is
great at using any powerful scrolls. And
scrolls, of course, are a very powerful
tool in Balders's Gate, giving us spells
that we wouldn't have access to
otherwise. So, make sure that you uh
hang on to powerful scrolls for this
character. But the real best item for
this character in the game is one that
you actually don't equip, but uh just
carry in your inventory, and that is the
resin stone. The resonant stone gives
all nearby creatures, including you and
your allies, the steeped in bliss
passive, which gives them uh
disadvantage on mental saving throws, so
anything targeting wisdom, which a lot
of our saves target, and vulnerability
to psychic damage. What's the damage
type that our shadow blade does? That's
psychic damage. So, it doubles all the
damage that our weapons do just for
carrying this in our inventory at all.
So, the resonant stone is incredible for
this character and massively improves
our damage output.
Um, other options include items that
increase our critical hit chance and
items that increase our spell save DC.
Things like the hell dust gloves that
give us extra damage uh on our weapon
attacks are also very good. But the main
thing here is that we want to abuse the
broken item combos like the helmet and
the band and get high spell DC and
decent defenses to make our character as
strong as possible. I've given a lot of
options here, but what I would
personally go for as the strongest
possible setup is the helmet of arcane
acuity, the band of the mystic
scoundrel, the ring of arcane synergy,
um the potent robe, the resonant stone,
and the hell dust gloves. And then of
course we're going to be using the
shadow blade and ketherix shield. Your
cloak and amulet are up to you and boots
are all up to you. I like to grab a
utility boot like the disintegrating
night walkers just to give us a little
bit more in the way of safety. Um but
anything that you feel like your part
your character needs a little bit more
of you can grab from those item slots as
well. This will give you the most
damaging character though not the most
defensive character. So you can also
swap this out for a more defensive setup
if you find that you're taking a lot of
damage. Also, keep in mind that this
character is one of the best in the game
at using blood lust elixirs because the
extra actions that you get are so
valuable because they let you cast
booming blade again. You can only use
this once per action, but if you get
multiple actions in a turn and you'll be
killing enemies constantly cuz we do so
much damage. So, blood lust elixir are
amazing for this character. Also,
finally, although I've been focusing on
a monoclass character for this video, I
should mention that Hexblade Warlock
multiclasses incredibly effectively as
well. The most exciting option is
probably two levels of paladin, letting
you add smites, and you can use your
warlock spell slots to smite um for even
more burst damage. A paladin smite plus
a banishing smite from our warlock spell
list is 5d10 force damage plus 5d8
radiant damage. You can double all that
with a critical hit plus 48 psychic
damage. So, this does a massive amount
of burst damage if you take levels in
paladin. Levels in sorcerer um can give
you the ability to restore your sorcery
points with your warlock spell slots.
And levels in bard or rogue can give you
extra skill access to make you even
better at succeeding on dialogue checks.
Uh one level of either of those can get
you a ton more additional skills. One
level of rogue also gets you expertise
in a couple skills as well. Um so that
will let you take expertise and
persuasion and succeed on dialogue
checks even more easily. So, those are
the multiclass options that I would look
at primarily, though there are tons of
multiclass options, and you can refer to
full build guides for those characters
if you're looking for more of those. All
right, my friends. I hope that you've
enjoyed this look at the Hexblade
Warlock, my pick for the most powerful
new class added in patch 8. And of
course, if you have, feel free to leave
a comment and hit like. And I hope it
helps you out with your Honor Mode runs.
And of course, you can subscribe to my
channel for more patch 8 build guides
and other strategy game analysis. Thank
you so much for watching. I'll catch you
next time.
