Hello my friends and welcome back to
another Balders's Gate 3 guide. Hope
you're all doing well. Today I'm going
to be talking about the 10 most fun
builds that I have played in Balders's
Gate 3. Since this game launched, I've
played hundreds of builds and tested
hundreds more. And so today, I wanted to
talk about 10 of the builds I found to
be the absolute most fun to play. So, if
you're newer to the game and looking for
an extremely fun playthrough, or a
veteran looking to try something new,
these builds are builds that I love, and
maybe you will, too. Now, obviously, fun
is subjective. What I find fun might not
be what you find fun, and that's totally
okay, but some of these builds are very
likely to be ones you'll enjoy. I've
included very different play styles. And
talking about fun builds can also help
give you ideas for uh things that you
might enjoy or find the fun in places
that you previously hadn't. Before I
begin, I do want to take a quick moment
to say thank you so much to Josh Hobbs
for the $5 donation, Aon for the $5,
Wanda Husbando for the £5, Thomas Beam
for the super generous $50, and Courtney
and Levvent Kurt for becoming channel
members. Thank you so much, my friends.
I really do appreciate your support. It
really means so much to me. All right,
let's have the most fun. Now, before I
jump into the builds, I think it's
important that I talk about what I mean
when I say something is fun. People have
fun in different ways, and that's of
course totally okay. I'm not here to
tell you that you are having fun wrong.
And in fact, if anyone tries to tell you
that the way you have fun in a
singleplayer video game is incorrect,
the only thing that that tells you is
that they're a sad and small-minded
person and their opinion isn't worth
anything. For me, what is most fun in
Balders's Gate 3 is the most interesting
and engaging gameplay. Now, that sounds
like it's kind of tautological. Of
course, most fun is most interesting.
But what that means for me is that I
want to have high agency and make
decisions and I want to vary what I'm
doing. In particular, I want varied
gameplay both over the course of a
build's levels and from turn to turn.
So, I want my decisions to feel
impactful. I want to feel like I am
changing what I'm doing turn over turn.
And I want the the class um often to be
an interesting and involved character
build as well so that I can make
decisions in terms of items and build
gear. I don't prefer builds that just do
the same thing every turn over and over
again. And I don't prefer builds where
you don't make a lot of decisions during
combat. So I'm going to prefer builds
that are varied and both in terms of
their gameplay and over the course of
their levels. I also tend to like builds
that make a lot of decisions. And what
that means is that I want builds where
my good decisions give me an advantage
and my bad decisions give me a
disadvantage. In other words, I want to
feel like I'm impacting the game. There
are some builds where you you go into a
fight, you roll your dice. If you roll
high, you win. If you roll low, you you
lose. And often those can be the most
powerful builds because they tend to be
just direct overpowering damage. But for
me, that's less interesting than a build
where I have to make a lot of decisions.
And finally, I do want a build that's
powerful, but not broken. I don't want
to feel like I'm fighting my build. So,
I want a build that that does what it's
supposed to do and does it well. Um, but
I also don't want to completely
trivialize encounters. So, I want my
builds to be on a sort of seven out of
10 power scale in order for me to have
the most fun. So, that gives you an idea
of what I'm looking for when I'm looking
for a build. Uh, and obviously you can
adjust my opinions based on what you
think you're looking for. Let's start
with a quick honorable mention.
Monoclass characters. So, obviously I
like multiclassing and I like
complicated and interesting builds.
Otherwise, I wouldn't be running a build
YouTube channel. Uh, but monoclass
characters are really fun in Balders's
Gate. It's worth uh keeping in mind that
the game was mostly built and tested and
balanced, assuming that players would be
using almost entirely or entirely
monoclass characters. So, if you're
looking to play the game the way the
designers really intended for you to
play it and to have the encounters be
balanced the way they intended for them
to be balanced, monoclass builds are
just going to work out really well in
general. For the most part, there are
very, very few traps. All monocclass
characters can be fun and very very
playable. You're going to get the
intended balance, the intended gameplay.
You won't have to make any super
complicated decisions. So, if you're
looking for a simpler build, if you're
looking for something that's reliable
and doesn't have a chance of blowing
itself up if you pick the wrong level
order or something like that, monoclass
characters are always going to be great.
Obviously, you should avoid playing
monoclass characters if you prefer to
heavily customize your builds. Um, and
if you want to break the game or you
want to make the game super hard for
yourself, you should avoid monocclass
characters cuz they will tend to be a
more balanced experience. But it's worth
mentioning that the basic mechanics of
Balders's Gate 3 are a ton of fun. And
just playing the game normally is going
to be really, really fun. So, pick a
class you like and enjoy it. And jumping
into the actual builds, coming in at
number 10, the Glaive Master Fighter.
This is a build built around the
combination of polarm master the feet
and sentinel. What that means is that
when an enemy approaches you, polararm
master gives you an opportunity attack
against that enemy. And then sentinel
stops them dead because whenever they
get hit by an opportunity attack, they
stop moving. So when your enemies walk
towards you, you get to hit them because
you're using a reach weapon. It's
outside of their normal melee range and
they get stuck motionless, unable to hit
you. Not only is this just really funny,
it's also extremely effective against
melee enemies. And you can combine that
with even more lockdown by using battlem
fighter for the various lockdown
abilities of battlem fighter and
swashbuckler rogue, which is the way
that I enjoy building the character the
most to use swashbuckler rogue's
lockdown abilities as well. And this
gives you a character that has an
enormous number of options despite being
a melee character. For a lot of the
builds with the most options every turn
turn are spellcasters, but the glaive
master fighter has a ton of different
things that you can do every single
turn, which makes it extremely uh
engaging and very powerful to play. You
can build this with uh eight levels of
fighter, four levels of rogue, 12 levels
of fighter, or fighter eight barbarian
level. Uh and I've done builds with all
of them, by the way. Also, if any of
these builds uh intrigue you and you
want to learn more, I'll link the full
build guides in the descriptions below.
You should play a character like this if
you want to play a melee character and
you enjoy having really high damage
because this is a fighter build, so it's
going to have excellent damage. Lockdown
that stops enemies from doing stuff. If
you like doing stuff off of your turn
and stopping enemies from um acting on
their turns, so enemies will often have
their plans disrupted by this character.
Uh, and if you really like having your
positioning and your decisions matter,
where you stand on the battlefield with
this character matters a lot because
enemies moving through your space are
going to be stopped and uh, unable to
keep acting. So, positioning yourself
where enemies will have to pass through
you to get to your allies is a really
interesting tactical puzzle. Moving this
character to to shut down priority
targets is always something that's going
to be really engaging. It also causes
really really funny things to happen all
the time where an enemy will be charging
at your really low health character.
You'll kind of have forgotten that you
have the polarm master fighter and then
they'll just get stopped in their tracks
and just be staring at your wizard with
4 HP left uh fuming impotently. Um or
they'll skip their turns in various
ways. You will kill enemies on their
turn a lot of the time as well, which is
always hilarious when it happens. You
shouldn't play this character if you
dislike having pop-up messages um when
it's not your turn. A lot of players
find that a little bit annoying and you
do have to decide when you're making
your opportunity attacks. This character
generates a lot of those. So, be aware
of that. And you need to position
yourself well in order to maximize this
character. So, if you don't like
carefully positioning your characters,
this is probably not the character for
you. It also has specific gear
requirements, though depending on the
build, you can build it differently. But
you're always going to need a pole arm
um in order to make the pole arm master
feet function. So if you have something
else in mind for your fighter, then
obviously the polearm character is not
going to be the one that you want. I
think that this is also just a really
strong character if you're newer to the
game because it teaches you a lot of the
the game mechanics and ways that you can
get the most out of it while also being
a an extremely forgiving and very very
powerful character and one that's so
disruptive and has so many decisions
attached to it that it's going to be
extremely fun to play. Coming in at
number nine, this is kind of the
inspiration for this list, the Punch
Wizard. There's definitely some recency
bias here because this is one of the
characters I built most recently. But
honestly, this character is so much fun.
It's the most fun I've had building or
testing characters in a really long time
playing uh in in Balders's Gate because
it plays so differently and so uniquely
and is also so cool that it uses a
multiclass combination you almost never
see. The punch wizard uses monk and
bladinger wizard to make an extremely
mobile, extremely high damage character
that uses spell casting and weapon
attacks and unarmed attacks to eliminate
specific enemies, zip across the
battlefield, and take enemies out with a
flurry of punches, stabs, and spells.
Uh, it's unique in that this is a very
rare multi-class combination, which I
think is cool in and of itself. And it
also plays very differently than most
other characters. I think it makes a
great standin for like an anime
protagonist or um for a Volrer from the
Critical Role cartoon. Uh somebody
mentioned that in the build guide for
this character. Um and it's just so much
fun because those are archetypes that
you usually don't see in Balders's Gate
3. I honestly think this build is fun
enough that if I made this list a month
from now, it might have climbed further
up the list. But I wanted to to lowball
it because I built it fairly recently,
so I haven't played it as much as the
other builds on this list. You should
try this build out if you like
characters that have really good damage,
really good mobility, and lockdown
because you have all of your monk
abilities to knock enemies over. You
have the incredible lockdown abilities
that are available to wizards,
especially with things like booming
blade, and you do amazing damage. You
can vary your attacks from turn to turn.
Um, where you stand on the battlefield
matters a lot because you need to make
sure that you are in range to kill
enemies but get out of range of their
retaliation because the character is uh
pretty
um is pretty squishy. So, you need to
make certain that you have uh positioned
it appropriately, but you also have
great defensive tools. So, if you do
mess up, you have lots of ways to
recover. And I think that that's one of
the really fun things about this
character is it gives you a lot of tools
to do well and a lot of tools to recover
if you've done badly while also the core
gameplay just being so much um fun and
so varied and interesting that you're
always going to have something cool to
do. You also get a ton of control. You
can stop key enemies from doing
anything. You should avoid playing this
character though if you dislike playing
uh squishier characters or ones that
have um specific defensive requirements.
If a if a random critical hit knocking
your character down will ruin your day,
this might not be the character that you
want. You should also avoid if you
prefer not to trivialize boss encounters
because this character as a monk has
stunning strike and can definitely make
boss encounters too easy. Um or if you
really dislike it when your mistakes are
costly. Uh, I personally like it where
if I make a mistake, it actually hurts
me significantly and I don't mind losing
an honor mode run if I mess up my uh,
strategy. But if you prefer not to have
that be something that can happen to
you, then this is probably not the build
for you. Uh, although it is very very
powerful, especially on the top end,
especially if you're a more experienced
player. Um, but messing up can hurt and
it does require some resource management
cuz you're managing key points, you're
managing spell slots, you're managing
blade song charges. So, there's
definitely some things to keep track of
track of. I love this build uh for more
experienced players and you will
definitely still be able to enjoy it
quite a bit if you're a newer player.
Um, but uh you will probably get the
most out of it once you're a little more
familiar with uh BG3's system. So, just
be aware of that. But overall, this is
uh the build that I really want from a
monk. Just dashing across the
battlefield at lightning speed, taking
out key targets, assassinating things,
teleporting, punching enemies through
walls. It just gives you so many options
and you feel so cool while you're doing
them. Coming in at number eight, a
classic build on this channel, the
Lightning Lord. This build uses Tempest
Cleric, Divination Wizard, and Sorcerer
with uh Quicken Spell Metam Magic in
order to cast a one-shot combo. You use
Witchbolt, you target an enemy, you get
an automatic critical hit, you maximize
the damage on a wet enemy, and you just
do a guaranteed 300 damage in one blast
to one-shot them. Now, that is also
that's an extremely powerful tool, and
that type of one-shot combo is really,
really fun. But what makes this build
much more fun than just being a one-shot
combo build is that you're also one of
the best spell-casting characters in the
game. You have amazing support. You have
tons of varied options with clerics,
supporting spells, the full wizard spell
list available from scrolls and
sorcerers metamagic to give you just a
tremendous number of tools in addition
to the ability to just point andclick at
an enemy that you find annoying and
erase them from existence. This is uh
the most powerful build that made this
top 10 fun builds list. It's one of the
top 10 most powerful builds in the game
as well, I think. Um, but even though it
is extremely high power, one of the
things that makes this build so much fun
is that you can apply that power when
you want it and do other things when you
don't. This build can also take a
backseat and do things like cast twin
haste on two allies or cast sanctuary
and haste or use control spells like
sleeptorm or fear or whatever in order
to lock down encounters. So you always
have tons of options and are not reduced
to just the only thing you do being
one-shotting bosses. But also, if you
just want to look at a boss and say,
"You're gone. You're out of here," you
can do that as well. So, you should play
this character if you enjoy one-shotting
enemies. if you enjoy cool build combos,
cuz this uses some of the game's
mechanics and some um in ways that by
now are fairly wellnown, but are still a
fairly intricate puzzle to put together
in order to create this build and have
it be functional. Uh if you like having
awesome support abilities, but also
getting to take the front uh take the
star position sometimes is especially
good in co-op where you can kind of take
a backseat to your co-op partners, let
them feel like they're doing all the
work for you. Um, but then when you
really just want a boss gone, you just
obliterate it and win the encounter
immediately. Uh, this is also just
overall one of the strongest
spellcasters in the game. So, if you
want high powered spellcasting, this
character has access to pretty much
everything that's good about a
spellcaster and can make it even
stronger with sorcerer metamagic. You
also have great defensive capabilities
because you have heavy armor from
Tempest Cleric as well as the shield
spell and a bunch of other defensive
tools. So, it's hard for you to actually
die and you can keep up all of your
buffs or control spells or your one-shot
combo um relatively easily. You should
avoid this character if you dislike
following a very specific level order in
order to build this character correctly.
You do need to follow an exact level
order, which you can of course find in
the build guide that I've linked below.
And if you don't want to make the game
too easy, this is one of the very
strongest builds in the game. So, while
I enjoy it cuz it lets you kind of
decide whether you're going to use all
of its power at once or not, um you can
definitely make the game too easy for
yourself by playing a build this strong.
And of course, there's also resource
management. Not only are you managing
spell slots, you're also managing things
like short rest abilities like Tempest
Cler's channel divinity, sorcerer's meta
magic points, item cool downs, and so
on. Um, so there's definitely a little
bit more to keep track of, but the the
floor on this character is so high that
honestly even if you mess up your
resource management, it's not going to
hurt you significantly. It just means
that you'll be doing something else for
that fight. And that something else is
going to be being just a better full
powered wizard. So that's still a really
good thing to be. I think that this
build, of all of the strongest builds in
the game, is especially fun because it
just gives you so many choices while
also bringing the incredible power level
that you want from such a highpowered
build. At number seven, the Tiger Heart
Barbarian. This uh barbarian uses Tiger
Heart in order to turn all of your
attacks while raging into an AoE cone
that inflicts bleed on every enemy that
you hit. At level six, you get the
Wolverine aspect, which causes enemies
to become maimed whenever they're
bleeding, which prevents them from
moving. So, every one of your attacks is
an area of effect that causes enemies to
become uh to to start bleeding and be
unable to move. This by itself is really
fun cuz it prevents them from getting
away from your barbarian. So, that's a
really cool combo, but where this
becomes especially good is if you
combine it with ways to knock enemies
prone. In particular, ways to inflict
reverberation, like the boots of Stormmy
Clamor, will knock enemies prone. In
Boulders's Gate 3, it takes um enemy
movement, half of their movement in
order to stand back up. And if they
can't move, they can't stand back up.
So, an enemy who's prone and maimed is
completely stunned, unable to react. So,
basically, every single attack that you
make with a Tiger Barbarian is an AoE
stun while you're raging. This is really
powerful, but also extremely fun because
it lets you, when you can group enemies
up, have some of the most absurd turns
that any character is capable of,
locking down or soloing entire
encounters, stunning them, outputting
great damage, and of course, you're a
wildart barbarian, so you're extremely
tanky as well. Some of the most
ridiculous turns that I've ever had in
Boulders's Gate 3 have been as a result
of a wild heart barbarian using action
surge with levels of fighter in order to
just AoE down an entire encounter at
once. You can put enemies together using
things like minor illusion or the black
hole illithid power in order to group
them on top of each other and then use
this tiger barbarian attack in order to
AoE down the whole encounter. Um, so you
just get some of the most ridiculous
turns possible in the game. This
character obviously does great damage.
It's a barbarian, so you get to use some
of the best uh weapons in the game. You
rarely miss your attacks because you
have reckless attack. You're great at
tanking because again, you're a
barbarian. You have lots of hit points
and you can cause enemies to attack you
with reckless attack. You have great
lockdown. Enemies who are susceptible to
bleeding basically can't fight back
against this character. You get some of
the most ridiculous turns in the game
and you get to solo encounters entirely
on your own when you're playing a tiger
barbarian. This is really the power
fantasy for playing a barbarian. I think
just winging into combat and uh emerging
um from the other side in a blood soaked
pile of bodies that you have left behind
you because of your unquenchable rage as
you move like a whirlwind through the
enemy formation. The downsides of this
character are that you do do the same
thing most fights. You're a barbarian
and you make melee attacks and that's
what you're going to be doing. So, if
you are not looking for a character that
just wants to get into melee and fight
in melee, then this obviously isn't the
character for you. And you do have to
manage your rage, which is a a long rest
resource. Also, if you spend a turn
where you don't take or deal damage,
then take damage or make an attack, then
you lose rage, and that can be
frustrating for some players. So, those
are some things to be aware of. But if
you just want an extremely satisfying,
extremely powerful, and devastatingly
dangerous melee combatant, it's hard to
go wrong with a Tiger Heart Barbarian.
Coming in at number six, Beastmaster
Ranger. So, Beastmaster Ranger is a
class that's always been kind of funny.
It has really never found its identity
in tabletop D and D. They've had to
rework it several times and then in
order to implement it in Balders's Gate
3, Laren basically rebuilt this class
from the ground up adding a ton of
abilities that it doesn't have in
tabletop and they did a phenomenal job.
Beastmaster Ranger is so cool because it
really feels like you and your animal
companion are operating as a duo uh
working together in order to take down
enemies and support one another and do
various things. the ways that you can
play the characters and the different
animal companions that you can use all
play out extremely differently. Um, and
you can also change which animal
companion you're using over the course
of the playthrough if you want to
reummon a different animal companion for
different encounters. That's a totally
uh viable thing to do and lets you
change up what you're doing with your
beast master ranger um a lot, which is
great, especially for a mostly marshall
character that normally doesn't change
that much over the course of the 12
levels. Beast Master Ranger, thanks to
getting access to different animal
companions and having them gain new and
cool abilities at various levels as you
keep leveling up, changes a lot over the
course of the playthrough. Obviously,
you should only play this character if
you want to have two characters for the
price of one. But you do get two
characters for the price of one, which
is a really fun thing to get for uh a
character build. And you have tons of
options as to how you structure your
character, which animal companion you
use, whether you use u the same one all
the way through or change it. Also
drastically changes the character of the
playthrough. So, it gives you a lot of
customization there. It's a very
consistent character. uh the Beast
Master Ranger because it's a ranger
which is one of the most straightforward
and consistent builds in the game. Just
ranger 12 just always works, but it adds
this whole extra thing for you to manage
in the form of your animal companion. It
gives you both consistency and
variability in the same class, which is
something that very few other classes
manage, and that's really cool. There's
also a ton of weird interactions between
the animal abilities. They get some
unique abilities that don't appear
anywhere else in the game. And you can
do some really weird things with
Beastmaster Ranger abilities like
infinite darkness or various other
things that are just cool tricks that
aren't available anywhere else in in
Boulders's Gate 3 and only Beastmaster
Rangers get to do them. Obviously, you
should avoid this character if you don't
want to manage a summon. If you prefer
to have only one character, then the
summoning character is not the one that
you should play. And while you can play
melee beastmaster, archer beastmaster is
a lot stronger. So usually you're going
to want to build it as an archer if
you're playing this character. And if
you're not interested in playing an
archer, then beast masteraster may not
be what you want. Though melee beast
master is still viable, just a little
bit less powerful. This character also
does have positioning requirements.
Because the beast is pretty squishy and
can be in a lot of danger, especially if
you don't have party members who are
good at supporting it and keeping it
alive. It does require a little bit more
play skill from the player than a lot of
other marshall characters which can
often just run in a straight line at
enemies. Um, but if you uh don't mind
any of those things, then this character
is going to be extremely rewarding,
extremely fun to play, and can play out
in a lot of different ways. Next up, my
favorite support character now, the
glamourbard support. This character uses
10 levels of glamourbard and usually two
levels of star druid, though you can
also just go glamourbard as a monoclass
character or add some sorcerer levels or
wizard levels if you want additional
types of spellcasting. Playing a pure
support character like this, I think, is
really fun because it tends to make
combats go longer, but without costing
you power level, so you make a lot more
decisions and can see a lot more of the
game while not putting yourself at
significantly greater risk. And it also
lets you overcome encounters in ways
that you may not have been thinking of
if your normal approach is just to
damage everything until it's dead on the
first turn. Playing a pure support
character can help break you out of that
pattern and get to see more of what the
game has to offer and more of what the
enemies do. Not that it's bad to just
kill everything on the first turn, of
course. If that's how you like to play,
that can be great. But um you will often
see the advice that that is the only way
to play and that's extremely not true.
Uh this character is amazing because it
provides some of the the most pure
support. You can play this as a as a
pure pacifist character if you want
doing actually no damage or even no
hostile effects to enemies and still
have it be incredibly effective which is
a really fun and unique way to play a
character as well. Um, or you can have
it be more aggressive but still
providing a huge amount of support to
your party. This character also has some
of the most complex movement and most
and weirdest interactions in the game.
So, if you're a more veteran player
looking for interesting tactical
challenges, this character creates them
because you're doing a lot of deliberate
provoking of attacks of opportunity in
order to trigger the mantle of
inspiration charm um with the
glamourbard. And then you will uh and
also trying to manipulate enemy aggro in
order to keep them from breaking your
concentration on Mantle of Majesty. You
also get all of the cool stuff that Bard
already gets with their various control
spells. The fact that they're a bard,
which gives you amazing skill access, of
course, and all the the other things as
well. So, this just has some really
complex and interesting gameplay and
makes the game more strategic than it
often is if you're playing characters
that mostly frontload damage. You also,
of course, get really powerful
spellcasting and a very varied strategy
from encounter to encounter. You to shut
down bosses with Mantle of Majesty or
play these intricate positioning games
where you try to charm enemies in order
to uh cost them turns because they're
going to be losing the ability to attack
one of your characters and knowing how
far enemies move can give you a lot of
uh advantages if you know how to
position. This also has the advantage
that there are some people who
Glamourbard absolutely drives berserk
because it's not a pure damage
character. So weird nerds who spend too
much time on Reddit and just parrot back
opinions that they hear there will get
really mad if you play a glamourbard.
And I personally find that very
rewarding. Um but you should be aware
for playing this character that it is a
pure support character. It does low or
no damage. It has a lot of positioning
requirements and so generally it's
intended for more veteran players this
build. Um, but once you start learning
the intricacies of the game, it's
incredibly rewarding. You also should
generally play it with at least one and
preferably two melee teammates. So, if
you are playing a party where you're not
mostly melee characters or have no melee
characters, then you probably shouldn't
include this build um because it
benefits heavily from having melee
teammates. But if those aren't things
that you that bother you, this is one of
the most strategically difficult and
therefore, in my opinion, strategically
interesting characters while still being
extremely powerful um in the entire
game. Coming in at number four, the Lich
Queen, which I've also called the real
best wizard in Balders's Gate 3. Um,
basically, this is a cleric that's also
a wizard or a wizard that's also a
cleric. Thanks to the way that wizard
spellcasting works in Balders's Gate 3,
the spell level that you can learn from
scrolls is based on your total caster
level, not your total wizard level. So,
a cleric with 11 levels of cleric and
one level of wizard gets six level
cleric spells and up to six level wizard
spells available from scrolls. So, you
basically get to be two characters all
wrapped up into one. In particular, I
enjoy this version with death cleric
that can really focus on dealing damage
while also having all of this amazing
spell casting. But you can also build it
with tempest cleric, with light cleric.
It doesn't really matter what cleric uh
subclass you're using, but um there are
ve so there are various ways to do it.
But the way that this character works,
you basically get to be two entire
spellcasters wrapped into a single
character. You have some of the very
best spellcasting in the game.
Obviously, wizards and clerics together
have uh the best damage spells, the best
control spells, the best defensive
spells, the best support spells, and you
get them all on a single character um
because of the way that wizard spells
scribing works.
This is really the ultimate spellcaster
in Boulders's Gate. If you just want to
be the master of magic, then this
character is very hard to go wrong with.
The only real downside is that there is
some resource management obviously like
any spellcaster, but more so because
your spell preparations as a wizard can
be somewhat limited since you only have
one actual wizard level. You may also
end up using the headband of intellect
because uh in order to avoid having to
put actual points in intelligence, so
there may be some gear requirements. And
the wizard spellcribing thing is
arguably an exploit or a glitch in
tabletop. it wouldn't give you uh maxle
wizard spells if you just have one level
of wizard. Um that's kind of unique to
Balders's Gate 3. Obviously, that's so
baked into the system at this point that
it's never going to change and is
clearly how the designers intended it
for to for it to work. But if you
believe that that's an exploit, you may
not want to use it. But um other than
those, this is just the uh strongest,
most consistent, and one of the most fun
spellcasters in the game as just a pure
spellcaster. Coming in at number three,
my favorite patch 8 edition,
Swashbuckler Rogue. Swashbuckler Rogue
is the way that Rogue should be. You
feel tricky, you feel clever, you feel
like you're unpredictable to your
enemies, which obviously are computers,
so that's not real, but it gives you the
sense that you are doing things that
your opponents don't expect. Uh,
swashbuckler rogue is a relatively
simple class, but that simplicity is
deceptive because you always have tons
of options every single turn because the
way that the characters abilities
interact, especially with the items and
weapon abilities and everything
available in the game just gives you an
enormous list of different relevant and
cool things that you can do every single
turn, whether you're playing a
monocclass swashbuckler rogue or just a
heavily uh rogue oriented did multiclass
like Rogue 10 fighter 2 or Rogue 11 with
a level of hex blade to make things more
charisma based for the character. Um,
you're going to be able to get a lot of
different feats. So, you can use some of
the cool feat combos in the game.
Sentinel and polarm master I've already
talked about in the glaive master build,
but sentinel is especially fun for this
character. And because you get four
feats as a rogue if you're monocclass,
you can engage with a lot of the feats
that normally you don't get to see,
especially because this character gets a
natural initiative bonus. So, you just
get to play with more different things
that aren't available to other
characters. Uh, this character rewards
tricky maneuvering. It rewards knowing
what options you have against certain
enemies, and it gives you a lot of
strategy and agency every turn. There's
always something cool that you can do,
always something fun that you can do,
and if you mess up, you can always get
away and come back and try again later,
which gives you even more the feeling of
being a rogue and hitting enemies when
they're weak or hitting them where it
hurts. This character has so many
options, even with the the few abilities
that you get, that I think it's just a
really elegant design. You have tons of
lock down and you can vary what
crowdcontrol abilities you're using on
which enemies in order to make sure that
the enemies are maximally inconvenienced
by them. And because you're so mobile,
you can always do it to the enemy that
you want to uh attack or inconvenience.
You also do great damage, though it is
lower than other dedicated marshall
damage builds, but for me, I enjoy that
a lot because it means again that
encounters tend to go a little bit
longer because you're playing a lower
damage character. but with all these
cool tricks and defensive abilities
which lets you do more fun things while
you're playing the game. Uh you should
avoid playing swashbuckler rogues if you
dislike characters that are lower on the
power scale. Not low. This is still a
very strong character that's more than
powerful enough to defeat honor mode,
but not as powerful as some of the other
builds that I've mentioned. Monoclass
rogue um is generally considered the
weakest monoclass character, but
swashbuckler rogue does kind of change
that by adding a bunch of power level to
to rogue. So, it's still a very powerful
monocclass character. Um and you also
are a little bit squishy or have low hit
points. Uh you do have great defensive
capabilities with all of Rogue's evasion
and um uncanny dodge and everything, but
there are ways that this character can
just get blown up. So again, that's a
downside you have to be aware of. And
this character also again requires more
strategy, more positioning than some
other builds. So be aware of that. If
that's not something you're looking for,
this may not be the character for you.
But if you like making lots of decisions
every turn and feeling like all of your
decisions matter, Swashbuckler Rogue is
just one of the most fun characters that
gives you that feeling the most
possible. Coming in at number two, a
controversial character, Wild Magic
Sorcerer. Now, I mentioned right at the
beginning that one of my favorite things
in games is when things go wrong and
force me to adapt my strategy on the
fly. Wild Magic Sorcerer is basically
things go wrong the class. But what
makes this character fun instead of just
frustrating is that because it's a
sorcerer and therefore incredibly
powerful, it can create these bizarre
and difficult situations um that you
weren't expecting, but you also have the
tools and power to get yourself back out
of them. Wild Magic Sorcerer gives you
the tremendous and awesome power of a
sorcerer. So when something ridiculous
happens, you can still recover. And I
find that that is the most satisfying uh
strategic moment in games is when I have
to adapt on the fly, but I'm able to
find a way to do that. And Wild Magic
Sorcerer creates both conditions for
that thing to happen. Um, you should
play Wild Magic Sorcerers if you like
randomness. And uh, randomness is less
optimal. you're going to win less often
if you're playing a character that has a
lot of randomness to it, but will create
more emotional swings. You're going to
get more dramatic gameplay and more um
interesting gameplay when things can be
more random and therefore more difficult
a lot of the time. And it's also worth
noting that the randomness for Wild
Magic Sorcerer is a little overstated.
There are there are people who will say
that this character is unplayable on
honor mode because of the randomness.
That's definitely not true. There are
lots of ways that you can mitigate the
randomness in your favor or arrange to
always have ways to plan for it. And
that type of planning ahead I also find
really fun um in strategy games. It's
also of course a charisma character. So
you get to do all the dialogue skills
that is also really fun. So there's a
lot of things that this character brings
to the table. What it really brings
though is a sense of drama. Something
that video games can often be missing is
that in uh in other forms of art, in uh
TV, in books, whatever, often the source
of drama is the main characters making a
mistake or a bad decision happening and
then having to dig themselves back out
of it. That doesn't happen as much in
games because it puts the player in
charge of those decisions. So, Wild
Magic Sorcerer gives you a sense of I
caused this problem and now I have to
solve it, which is one of the main
sources of drama that exists in um in
art in general. And being able to
experience that in a game that doesn't
normally have it, I think is great. You
should play this character if you like
random things happening, if you like
absurd and ridiculous situations, if you
enjoy funny things occurring. Um,
especially if you're playing in a co-op
game and you want to watch your co-op
partners uh just dissolve into laughter
because the most ridiculous possible
thing happened at the most ridiculous
possible time. Um, and also if you like
playing really powerful characters, this
is a sorcerer, so you have action
economy breaking with metamagic. You
have incredible damage, you have
incredible control spells, and you have
the ability to react on the fly to the
things that happen, which the character
also causes you to do. Obviously, you
shouldn't play a wild magic sorcerer if
you dislike randomness and if you
dislike having to react on the fly to
strategic situations, if you prefer to
plan out your encounter from the
beginning. If your satisfaction with
playing a game is um coming up with a
perfect plan and then executing that
plan perfectly and not having anything
go wrong, then this is not the character
for you. But if you like having to adapt
your plans on the fly, Wild Magic
Sorcerer is incredibly fun because of
the randomness that it gives you. And
finally, coming in at number one, the
Omniccastaster. Though, I admit that
there's a lot of bias here cuz I just
love lorebards. I think that lorebards
are incredibly cool. I think it's one of
the best design classes in fifth
edition. And this is also basically the
build that I played through the game the
first time with. So, there's definitely
some nostalgia at play here. But I also
think that if you're just looking for
the most fun way to play the most of
Balders's Gate possible, this is this
character is incredible for that. The
thing that this character lets you do is
everything. As a bard, you have access
to amazing skills. And as a lore bard,
you have even more access to amazing
skills. And because you are a full
spellcaster, you get to use pretty much
all of the spell casting. You also,
because of a cleric level, get access to
all of cleric's supporting uh spells as
well. And with a wizard level, get
access to every wizard spell that you
can scribe from a scroll. With magical
secrets, you can even mix in um spells
from other classes like paladin or
warlock in order to basically have every
good spell in the game all on a single
character. And that is both really cool,
the fact that that's possible and also
super fun. In addition to having every
good spell, you can build this character
to do uh more melee uh effects. You can
build them tankier and move them into
melee. You can also have them play more
as a ranged character. There are ways
you can work some marshall stuff into
this character as well. But basically,
you just get to do everything with a
single character cuz you're the best
skill user in the game and one of the
best spellcasters in the game. And
because you're a lorebard with access to
counter spell, from magical secrets,
with access to shields, from being a
wizard, and with access to cutting
words, you get some of the best offturn
actions as well. If you want to be a
light cleric, you can also use warding
flare. So, this character can use some
of the the most disruptive and most fun
offturn actions um available in
Balders's Gate. I always like being able
to act on enemy turns because it really
gives you the feeling of control and the
feeling like you're able to affect
what's going on in the game. And
obviously one of the themes of all the
characters that I've mentioned here is
that they give you a lot of agency and a
lot of feeling like you can change
what's happening. And this character
does that better than pretty much every
other character. This character also
just lets you experience uh a lot of
what Boulders Gate has to offer all in a
single playthrough. And the game is
great. So being able to see more of it
with one character is just going to be a
lot of fun um because you just get to do
everything. So, if you like having
skills, if you like being a party
leader, if you like having access to
every spell in the game, if you like
having an absurd number of options every
single turn, there's never um a turn
where you don't have something cool and
relevant and interesting and powerful to
do because you basically have every
spell in the game. So, of course, you're
always going to have something great to
do. Uh, and if you like being able to
act off of your own turn to disrupt
enemy plans and shut down what enemies
are doing and support your allies even
further, I think it's very hard to go
wrong with this character. And as a lore
bard, you just get all of the the most
fun access to skills and storylines and
um out of combat utility as well
available. You should avoid this
character if you dislike having lower
direct damage than other characters. if
you really want your character to have
the most damage possible. That's not
this one. Um, and you do need uh more
game knowledge in order to maximize the
use of this character, of course. Um,
because you need to know what wizard
spells are good, what order to take
these levels in, and so on. Though,
obviously, I cover that in the guide uh
that I will link to below. Also, it does
have the same wizard spellcribing
exploit, but uh which I've spelled
scribing. Um, but uh it will
does it does use that uh exploit as
well. So, of course, be aware of that.
But the amount of things that this build
gives you and the amount of stuff you
can access and you can do it every turn
you what you do uh turn to turn changes
both in different combats and across
every level that you build the character
up. Collecting scrolls is fun and gives
you the sense of uh accomplishment and
building up your character and finding
new and powerful things, especially with
the secret spells that are available in
Boulders's Gate as well. So, it just
gives you access to all of the cool ways
to affect the game, build power, and
have more fun. I love this character and
can't recommend it enough. All right, my
friends. I hope that you've enjoyed this
look at the 10 most fun characters that
I've played in Balders's Gate 3. Now,
obviously, of course, I am missing
hundreds of characters that are
extremely fun. Uh, and you know, if I
made this list on a different day, I'm
sure it would look completely different
because these things are so subjective
and overall the game is just so much fun
that um, playing one of these specific
characters is not necessary to have the
most fun possible. Um, but hopefully
this gives you an idea for some of the
characters that I've enjoyed the most,
that you might enjoy the most, or ways
to build characters that you might find
um more fun, whether you're a new player
or or a veteran coming back to the game
for the millionth time. As always, of
course, uh also definitely let me know
builds that you think are really fun
that I didn't mention here. Post your
favorite builds in the comments below.
Other people can look for those as well
and might find something that they would
enjoy. As always, of course, if you've
enjoyed the video, feel free to leave
any comment. Of course, not just a
build, but any comment helps. Um, and
hit like. That's great for the
algorithm, so I appreciate you taking
the time to do that. Also, if you can
hype the video, YouTube has just added
that. Um, I still have no idea what it
does, but it can't hurt to push buttons,
so I appreciate you doing that as well.
And of course, you can subscribe to my
channel for more Balders's Gate 3 and
other strategy game analysis. Cheers, my
friends. Happy holidays if you're
celebrating around this time and I will
catch you next time.